 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART C — PISTON ENGINES, TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 71 of 262 
 
CS-E 330  Tests - General 
A single Engine must be used for all the tests except that, if so desired, the vibration, calibration, and 
detonation tests may be made on Engines of the same type as the Engine used for the other tests so 
long as there is essential similarity to that Engine. The vibration tests may be made during preliminary 
development of the type provided that the design standard and power rating of the Engine used do 
not differ essentially from the prototype. 
CS-E 340  Vibration Tests 
(See AMC E 340) 
(a) 
Tests by approved methods must be made on an appropriate mounting to satisfy the Agency 
that no dangerous torsional or flexural vibration characteristic exists in the dynamic system 
throughout the operating range of crankshaft rotational speed and Engine power used in flight. 
In the absence of adequate evidence to the contrary, a maximum stress shown to be safe for 
continuous use must be regarded as the maximum safe stress. The range must include low 
power operation and must comprise crankshaft speeds from idling to the highest of the 
following: 110% of the desired Maximum Continuous speed, 105% of the desired maximum 
Take-off speed, or the maximum desired Over-speed. Observations must be made at 
increments of 50 crankshaft rpm throughout this range. Tests covering the range up to the 
desired maximum take-off speed rating must also be made with that cylinder not firing which 
is most critical from the point of view of vibration. 
(b) 
A representative flight Propeller must be used for these tests. In the case of a Fixed Pitch 
Propeller a ‘throttle’ curve must be run. In the case of a Variable Pitch Propeller the procedure 
must normally be the same, with the Propeller blade pitch set to a fixed value which will give 
maximum Engine power at maximum Engine rotational speed. If the results of the tests with a 
Variable Pitch Propeller show the existence of a serious critical vibration within the operating 
speed range, a more detailed investigation must be made at speeds within the critical range. 
(c) 
A harmonic analysis of the vibration records must be made by a method approved by the 
Agency, at each increment of Engine speed and the results plotted against Engine speed so that 
the predominant orders of vibration and their relative magnitudes are clearly shown 
throughout the operating speed range of the Engine. 
(d) 
In cases where torsional strain in the Propeller shaft has been measured by means of a torsional 
strain type of vibration pickup, the torque amplitude of the orders of vibration must be plotted 
about the mean torque curve for the Engine. In other cases where for practical reasons it is 
impossible to use the strain type of torsional vibration pickups, and a seismic type of instrument 
attached to the free end of the crankshaft is used, the angular displacement amplitudes of the 
various orders of vibration at the free end of the crankshaft must be plotted against Engine 
speed. 
(e) 
A tabulation based on the theoretical and test results obtained must be made detailing the 
following information relating to resonant conditions for the most serious criticals: Engine 
speed, order of vibration, frequency, maximum and minimum values of vibration stress in the 
crankshaft and Propeller shaft and the region at which they occur. Diagrams showing the 
displacement curves for the modes of vibration associated with these criticals should also be 
presented.  
(f) 
If excessive vibration is found to be present in the operating range of the Engine, suitable 
remedial measures must be taken prior to the endurance test of CS-E 440. 
