 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 187 of 262 
 
thickness, ice properties and rotor speed at the time of the shed define the impact 
threat. 
(2.3) Establishment of Test Points for Ground Operation 
The Engine should demonstrate the ability to acceptably operate at minimum ground idle 
speed to be approved for use in icing conditions for a minimum of 30 minutes at each of 
the following icing conditions shown in Table 2, with the available air bleed for ice 
protection at its critical condition, without adverse effect. An acceleration to take-off 
power or thrust should be performed at the time when the maximum ice accretion is 
likely to have occurred. During the idle operation, the Engine may be run up periodically 
to a moderate power/thrust setting in a manner acceptable to the Agency. 
Normally, the conditions established during the test in terms of time, temperature and 
run-up procedures will be deemed to be the limitations necessary for safe operation in 
the applicable environment provided that the acceptance criteria of CS-E 780(a) are met.  
However, an analysis may be used to demonstrate that ambient temperatures below the 
tested temperature are less critical. 
Moreover, the applicant may demonstrate unlimited time operation if complete ice 
shedding is shown to have occurred during the test, either through repeatable ice 
build/shed cycles or by using a run-up procedure. 
In order to avoid any unsafe condition resulting from operation outside the demonstrated 
conditions, these limitations will be defined in the manuals containing instructions for 
installing and operating the Engine. 
For rime and glaze ice conditions as defined in Table 2, approval for operation below -
18°C may be substantiated by analysis. A reduced liquid water concentration may be 
acceptable subject to appropriate substantiation. 
The applicant should demonstrate, taking into consideration expected airport elevations, 
the following: 
 
Table 2 — Demonstration Methods for Specific Icing Conditions 
Condition 
Total Air 
Temperature 
Liquid Water/Snow 
Concentrations 
(minimum) 
Mean Effective 
Particle Diameter 
Demonstration 
1. Rime ice 
condition 
-18 to -9 °C 
(0 to 15 °F) 
Liquid — 0.3 g/m3 
15–25 µm 
By Engine test 
2. Glaze ice 
condition 
-9 to -1 °C 
(15 to 30 °F) 
Liquid — 0.3 g/m3 
15–25 µm 
By Engine test 
3. Snow condition 
(Note 1) 
-3 to 0 °C 
(26 to 32 °F) 
Snow — 0.9 g/m3 
100 µm 
(minimum) 
By test, analysis 
(including 
comparative 
analysis) or 
combination of the 
two. 
4. Large drop glaze 
ice condition 
(Note 2)  
 
-9 to -1 °C 
(15 to 30 °F) 
Liquid — 0.3 g/m3 
100–3 000 µm 
By test, analysis 
(including 
comparative 
analysis) or 
