 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 54 of 262 
 
appropriate Engine and close the appropriate fuel shutoff valve(s). This cuts off the 
source of fuel. 
Oil system components of turbine Engines, however, may continue to flow oil after the 
Engine has been shut down because of continued rotation. The supply of oil to the fire 
might exist for as long as the continued rotation effects are present or until the oil supply 
is depleted.  
According to these assumptions, in general, components which convey flammable fluids 
can be evaluated to a Fire resistant standard provided the normal supply of flammable 
fluid is stopped by a shutoff feature (also see CS-E 570(e)(1)).  
Oil system components may need to be evaluated from the standpoint of fire hazard 
(quantity, pressure, flow rate, etc.) to determine whether Fire-resistant or Fireproof 
standards should apply. It should be noted that, historically, most oil system components 
have been evaluated to a Fireproof standard.  
Other flammable fluid conveying components (except flammable fluid tanks), such as 
hydraulic and thrust augmentation systems, should be evaluated in a similar manner. 
Flammable fluid tanks should be Fireproof as required by CS-E 130(c). 
(d) 
Pass / fail criteria 
When a fire test is performed, the following acceptance criteria should be considered:  
— To maintain the ability to perform those functions intended to be provided in case of 
fire,  
— No leakage of hazardous quantities of flammable fluids, vapours or other materials,  
— No support of combustion by the constituent material of the article being tested,  
— No burn through of firewalls,  
— No other conditions which could produce Hazardous Engine Effects.  
(i) 
Functions 
The functions intended to be provided in case of fire will be determined on a case 
by case basis. For example, Engine Control Systems should not cause a Hazardous 
Engine Effect while continuing to operate but should allow or may cause a safe 
shutdown of the Engine at any time within the required exposure time period.  
A safe Engine shutdown at any time during the fire resistance test is an acceptable 
outcome for this type of component, provided the safe shutdown is maintained 
until the end of the 5 minutes test period.  
For a flammable fluid tank shutoff valve, the valve should be operable (to close) or 
should default closed, and be capable of maintaining this position without leakage 
of a hazardous quantity of flammable fluid until the end of the 15 minute test 
period.  
The above examples are included to illustrate the case by case nature of making 
this determination.  
(ii) 
Leakage of flammable fluid 
At no time during or at the end of the test should the test article leak a hazardous 
quantity of flammable fluid.  
(iii) 
Support of combustion 
