 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 150 of 262 
 
(i) 
If the Engine was not subjected to a strip examination before commencing the 
additional endurance test, then the strip inspection specifications of CS-E 740(i)(1) 
apply on completion of the test. 
(ii) 
If it is proposed to subject the Engine to a strip examination before commencing 
the additional endurance test, the Engine must be reassembled using the same 
parts used during the 150 hours test run, except those parts described as 
consumable in the Engine documentation. 
(iii) 
After this additional endurance test, the Engine may exhibit deterioration in excess 
of that permitted in CS-E 740(i)(1), and it is accepted that some Engine parts may 
be unsuitable for further use. It must be shown by inspection, analysis and/or test, 
or by any combination thereof, that the structural integrity of the Engine is 
maintained. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/4] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
AMC E 740(c)(2)(i) Endurance Tests – 30-Minute Power Rating 
For Rotorcraft turbine Engines to be approved with a 30-Minute Power rating:  
(a)  
An applicant may propose either to include the required additional 25 hours within the overall 
test normally required by CS-E 740, or to perform a complementary test on the same test article 
used for the test required by CS-E 740, or a combination of these methods. If the additional 
25 hours are included within the overall test normally required by CS-E 740, the modified test 
periods should be uniformly distributed throughout the endurance testing.  
(b)  
Credit may be sought for time accrued during testing at the 30-Minute OEI rating required by 
CS-E 740. This allowance excludes the time spent at ‘standard’ Take-off Power. It should then 
be shown that these sequences were run with operating limitations that are equal to or more 
stringent than the 30-Minute Power rating operating limitations.  
(c)  
It is possible that the intended usage and performance characteristics of the Engine may be 
such that its power will be subject to mechanical limitations for a certain portion of its missions. 
In that case, it may be acceptable to run the Engine for a representative percentage of the time 
that is required at the 30-Minute Power rating at these mechanical limitations, but not to 
exceed 50 % of the required additional 25 hours (i.e. 12.5 hours). For the remaining percentage 
of the time, the Engine should be run at the higher thermal limits. The proposal must be 
substantiated and proposed to the Agency for acceptance. These assumptions will be recorded 
in the instructions for installing and operating the Engine, in accordance with CS-E 30(a).  
(d)  
No specific maintenance action is normally expected following the use of the 30-minute Power 
rating. This will be justified through compliance with CS-E 740(i)(1).  
[Amdt No: E/5] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
 
AMC E 740(c)(3) Endurance Tests 
(1) 
Two procedures for running the tests required under CS-E 740(c)(3) are acceptable:  
