 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 204 of 262 
 
(c) 
Operational Factors 
With knowledge of the power-loss and instability phenomena, the applicant can establish 
an operating envelope which minimises the power-loss and instability threats.  
(i) 
Increased power/thrust levels 
Increasing Engine power/thrust will increase rotor speeds and air intake 
specifications. This is beneficial because an increase in rotor speed will tend to 
improve centrifuging, while an increase in airflow will tend to decrease the adverse 
scoop factor effect. Combustor stability margin will also be improved with 
increased power / thrust. 
(ii)  
Avoidance of Engine transients  
Avoidance of Engine transients improves the stall and surge tolerance of the Engine 
and reduces the likelihood of rundown. However, avoidance of throttle transients 
should not be used by the applicant to show compliance with the rain and hail 
ingestion specifications.  
(iii) 
Decreased flight speeds 
Reduced aircraft speed, like increased power levels, is beneficial because it 
improves centrifuging while decreasing the adverse scoop factor effect.  
(4) 
Critical Point Analysis 
(a) 
General 
Compliance with the specifications of CS-E 790(a)(2) is a two-step procedure. The first 
step is to identify, through analysis, the critical operating points for rain and hail 
ingestion. The second step is to test the Engine at selected critical points to validate the 
Engine's capability to adequately withstand extreme rain and hail encounters. The 
applicant should develop a critical point analysis and submit the analysis to the Agency 
for concurrence, prior to the rain and hail ingestion testing. 
(b) 
Critical Point Analysis Elements 
The purpose of the critical point analysis is to identify operating points within the Engine 
flight envelope where operability margins are minimised due to the ingestion of rain or 
hail. The analysis should encompass the full range of all pertinent variables. These 
variable include, but are not limited to:  
(i) 
Atmospheric conditions 
The rain and hail threats identified in Figure A1 and Tables A1 to A4 in Appendix A 
of CS-E should be used for this purpose. The critical point analysis should consider 
the effects of nominal, as well as extreme, levels of rain or hail on the function of 
all relevant Engine components and systems.  
(ii) 
Rain and hail concentration amplification and attenuation effects 
The critical point analysis should quantify the amount of rain and, separately, the 
amount of hail ingested into the Engine core. Therefore, amplification and 
attenuation effects, such as the scoop factor effect and the relative velocity effect, 
should be quantified. This may necessitate assessing a representative installation 
aerodynamic flow field and probable flight profiles. In the case of rain ingestion, 
droplet break-up characteristics need to be established or conservatively assessed. 
In the case of hail ingestion, the trajectories of hail particles after impacting nose 
