 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 194 of 262 
 
— 
 anomalous Engine behaviour that has been found acceptable following ice shed 
ingestion; 
any damage observed following the icing tests considered acceptable by the applicant and by 
the Agency; 
— 
 minimum power/thrust required for safe operation of the Engine in icing conditions (if 
necessary); and 
— 
 for ground icing operation, the conditions established during the test in terms of time, 
temperature (if any limitation exists) and run-up procedures. 
If the Engine is certified under the assumption that the protection device considered under CS-
E 780(f)(3) is provided by the aircraft installation, and if (with respect to ice formed forward of 
the protection device) the compliance with CS-E 780(f)(1) to (f)(2) is waived, then the Engine 
approval would be endorsed accordingly and the Engine instructions for installation would need 
to impose the conditions of CS-E 780(f)(3)(i) to (iii) to the installation. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No.: E/4] 
[Amdt. No.: E/7] 
CS-E 790  Ingestion of Rain and Hail 
(a) 
All Engines. 
(1) 
The ingestion of large hailstones (0.8 to 0.9 specific gravity) at the maximum true 
airspeed, for altitudes up to 4 500 metres, associated with a representative aircraft 
operating in rough air, with the Engine at Maximum Continuous Power or Thrust, must 
not cause unacceptable mechanical damage or unacceptable Power or Thrust loss after 
the ingestion, or require the Engine to be shut down.  
 Engine tests must be performed as follows, unless it is agreed that alternative evidence 
can be used, such as results from other Engine test(s), rig test(s), analysis, or an 
appropriate combination of these, provided by the applicant from their experience with 
Engines of comparable size, design, construction, performance and handling 
characteristics, obtained during development, certification or operation. 
 One-half the number of hailstones must be aimed randomly over the inlet face area and 
the other half aimed at the critical inlet face area. The hailstones must be ingested in a 
rapid sequence to simulate a hailstone encounter and the number and size of the 
hailstones must be determined as follows: 
(i) 
one 25-millimetres diameter hailstone for Engines with inlet throat areas of not 
more than 0.0645 m2; 
(ii) 
one 25-millimetres diameter and one 50-millimetres diameter hailstone for each 
0.0968 m2 of inlet throat area, or fraction thereof, for Engines with inlet throat 
areas of more than 0.0645 m2. 
(2) 
In addition to complying with CS-E 790(a)(1) and except as provided in CS-E 790(b), it 
must be shown that each Engine is capable of acceptable operation throughout its 
specified operating envelope when subjected to sudden encounters with the certification 
standard concentrations of rain and hail as defined in Appendix A to CS-E. Acceptable 
Engine operation precludes, during any 3-Minute continuous period in rain and during 
any 30-Second continuous period in hail, the occurrence of flameout, rundown, 
