 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 58 of 262 
 
assembly, vent line assembly, filler cap and scupper, mounts, shutoff valve, temperature sensor, 
and air/fluid separator assembly. Tanks can be designed and manufactured with any 
combination of the above features, or other features not listed, and of varying materials.  
Therefore, in some instances, compliance with CS-E 130 may need to be supported by data from 
other fire tests, multiple location testing, sub component level tests, or service experience, to 
cover all tank assembly features.  
Also, other aspects of determining impingement location should be considered, such as vent 
system performance (experience has shown that oil tank fire tests have failed due to high 
internal pressure and inadequate venting), the lack of heat sink effect for tank features at or 
above the operating level of the tanks fluid contents and the effect of any special protective 
features (shields, coatings, feature placement, etc.) incorporated into the design.  
With respect to fluid quantity, the tank quantity at the start of the test should be no greater 
than the minimum dispatchable quantity, unless a greater quantity is more severe. Relative to 
flow rate, the first 5 minutes of the test should be conducted at the most critical operating 
condition (typically a minimum flight idle flow rate) and the subsequent 10 minutes should be 
conducted at an Engine shutdown flow rate with consideration of the effect of any continued 
rotation. The test may be run, at the applicant’s option, for 15 minutes at the most critical 
condition (worst case of Engine operating or in flight shutdown conditions).  
With respect to fluid temperature, this should be at its maximum value (the greatest of steady 
state or transient limit) at the start of the test, unless a lower temperature is more severe. The 
tank internal pressure should be the normal working pressure for the operating conditions at 
the start of the test. It is understood that these values may change due to the test conditions.  
The tank design and its intended application should be reviewed to provide reasonable 
assurance that the test set-up reflects the most critical flame impingement orientation and 
operating conditions for the intended application.  
(6) 
Drain and Vent Systems 
CS-E 130(b) allows certain parts to be exempt from the specifications because they do not 
typically contain or convey flammable fluids during normal Engine operation. This refers to 
normal operation in a typical flight mission. It is not intended to impose a fire resistance 
demonstration for all parts of the Engine which might contain, convey or be wetted by 
flammable fluids in all possible Failure scenarios.  
An example of parts which might be exempted is a combustor drain system which typically 
drains off residual fuel after an aborted Engine start. This might also be the case of the majority 
of individual drains and vents.  
However, a shrouded fuel line is considered as being a single assembly which cannot be 
dissociated into the main fuel line and its envelop (acting as a drain in case of a Failure in the 
main fuel line) and should comply with CS-E 130 as a component carrying flammable fluid. In 
this particular case, after the exposure to the flame, the external envelope may be destroyed 
provided the general pass / fail criteria described in paragraph (2)(d) of this AMC are complied 
with. 
In the case of a drain and vent system which would flow a hazardous quantity of flammable 
fluid during continued rotation after shut down of the Engine, then a fireproof standard may be 
appropriate. The function of each drain or vent should be carefully reviewed in making these 
determinations  
(7) 
Air Sources 
