 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 119 of 262 
 
When a test is performed on a part which is subjected in service to a varying pressure 
throughout its length, it is permissible to simulate the pressure conditions by suitably dividing 
the part into zones and applying the maximum pressure for each zone including the appropriate 
factors of CS-E 640(a). 
(3) 
Tests. General 
If the part is subject to loads in addition to those resulting from differential pressure (e.g. flight 
manoeuvre loads, Engine mounting loads, etc.), an analysis should be made of these additional 
loads and their effect examined. If the effect of these loads is small it may be possible to 
simulate them by an addition to the test pressure differential. However, if the loads are of 
significant magnitude or cannot adequately be represented by a pressure increment the test 
should be carried out with such loads acting in addition to the pressure loads.  
The part should be tested at the temperature associated with the most critical stress case or 
alternatively the test pressure differential may be increased to simulate the loss of relevant 
properties as a result of temperature.  
During pressure testing the methods of mounting and restraint by the test facility or test 
equipment of any critical section should be such as to simulate the actual conditions occurring 
on the Engine. 
(4) 
Analytical Modelling Methods 
An analytical modelling method may be used to determine adequate strength and fatigue life 
provided that the model is validated by testing or successful field experience with parts of 
similar design.  
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 650 Vibration Surveys 
(See AMC E 650) 
(a) 
It must be established by test or a combination of test and validated analysis that the vibration 
characteristics of all components that may be subject to mechanically or aerodynamically 
induced vibratory responses are acceptable throughout the declared flight envelope.  
(b) 
The vibration surveys must cover the ranges of power or thrust and rotational speed for each 
rotor module, corresponding to operations throughout the range of ambient conditions in the 
declared flight envelope, from the minimum rotational speed up to at least the maximum of:  
(1) 
103 % of the maximum rotational speed permitted for rating periods of two minutes or 
longer; 
(2) 
100 % of the maximum rotational speed permitted for rating periods of less than two 
minutes; 
(3) 
100 % of any Maximum Engine Over-speeds declared under CS E 830.  
(c) 
If there is any indication that a rising response amplitude may lead to peak vibratory stresses 
occurring at a speed above the maximum rotational speed established under CS-E 650(b), the 
surveys must be extended sufficiently to reveal the maximum amplitude, except that the 
extension need not cover more than a further 2 percentage points increase beyond this speed. 
(d) 
The surveys must also cover the aerodynamic and aeromechanical factors which might induce 
or influence flutter in those systems susceptible to that form of vibration. 
