 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 104 of 262 
 
ensure that the product of manufacturing is consistent with the design assumptions of 
the Engineering Plan. The intent is that:  
— Manufacturing processes are developed and applied with the appropriate level of 
oversight to ensure the part life capability assumed in the Engineering Plan is 
consistently achieved. Substantiation programmes are agreed up-front and executed 
as part of the process validation.  
— Changes to such manufacturing processes and practices are visible and are not made 
without crossfunctional review and approval.  
— When a suspected non-conformance event occurs, it is reviewed with the 
appropriate skill mix prior to disposition.  
The level of detail in the Plan may vary depending on the specific process step being 
considered, the sensitivity of the particular process step, and the level of control required 
to achieve the required life capability.  
For instance, consider the case where a process specification exists to control the drilling 
of holes. If the use of this specification produces a hole that meets the life capability 
specifications for a flange bolt hole, the plan may simply note that the flange bolt hole 
will be produced per the specification. However, if a rim air hole requires cold expansion, 
after drilling per the specification, to meet the life capability specifications, it may be 
necessary to reference the cold expansion process in the plan.  
(5) 
Means for defining a Service Management Plan. 
(a) 
Introduction 
The Service Management Plan forms part of the overall process intended to maintain the 
integrity of Engine Critical Parts throughout their service life. The Engineering Plan 
includes assumptions about the way in which the Engine Critical Parts are manufactured, 
operated and maintained: each can have an impact on the life capability of the part. 
Therefore, it is essential to ensure that these assumptions remain valid. The Service 
Management Plan conveys the processes for in-service repair and maintenance to remain 
consistent with the assumptions made in the Engineering Plan.  
(b) 
Determining the acceptability of repair and maintenance processes  
Repair and maintenance processes should be reviewed by the following key skills:  
— Engineering (Design & Lifing)  
— Material Engineering  
— Non-Destructive Inspection  
— Quality Assurance  
— Product Support Engineering  
— Repair Development Engineering  
The role of this cross-functional review is consistent with that laid out for the 
Manufacturing Plan. The review should include process validation, change control and 
non-conformance to ensure the product of any repair or maintenance is consistent with 
the engineering specification. The intent is that:  
— Repair and maintenance processes and practices are developed with the appropriate 
level of oversight, and with due regard to their possible impact on the life capability 
