 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 191 of 262 
 
—  relative kinetic energy normal to the leading edge chord, 
—  incidence angle — relative slab speed and blade speed, 
—  slab dimensions, 
—  sab orientation, and 
—  impact location. 
(ii) 
Any predicted power/thrust loss or blade damage (distortion, cracking, tearing) 
should be assessed against the criteria of this AMC.  
(iii) 
The relative kinetic energy of the ice slab should be determined from an 
assessment of the flight conditions that control Engine rotor speed versus ice slab 
velocity. Engine test results from previous ice slab testing may be used to support 
the predicted ice slab velocity. The applicant’s analysis should assume the most 
critical orientation, unless it can be shown that an alternate ice slab orientation is 
more conservative for ice slab testing. 
(iv) 
Ice Slab Break-Up. Typically, the ice slab breaks up into smaller pieces during an ice 
slab ingestion. The applicant’s analysis should use the largest slab size consistent 
with a conservative assessment of a slab ‘break-up’ that can occur within the air 
stream ahead of the fan. Data derived from a number of tests shows that the 
largest ice piece is typically 1/3 to 1/2 of the original size. For analysis purposes, 
the applicant may assume 1/2 of the original slab greatest dimension unless 
evidence suggests that this is not conservative relative to the ice slab testing. 
(d) 
Test Results  
CS-E 780(f)(2) requires that, following ice ingestion, the Engine must comply with CS-E 
780(a). The below elements should be considered: 
(i) 
Engine Loss of Performance. Applicants should evaluate the impact of any 
first stage blade bending or damage on potential sustained Engine 
power/thrust loss. Sustained power/thrust loss associated with first stage 
damage from the slab should be less than 1.5 %. Ice and birds are ‘soft body’ 
objects in their impact behaviour, i.e. they are both highly deformable on 
impact and flow over the structure, spreading the impact load. They also 
have similar densities; thus they create similar strain footprints and, 
consequently, similar damage. As soft body fan damage is common from 
medium bird ingestion, applicants may use the medium bird ingestion test 
results to show compliance with this requirement. If the medium bird 
ingestion test results in less than 1.5 % permanent power/thrust loss, and 
no cracks, tears or blade piece breakout occur due to a bird ingested at the 
outer 33 % of the first stage blade span, then the CS-E 780(f)(2) requirement 
is met. 
(A) 
If power/thrust loss exceeds 1.5 % when utilising the bird test, the 
applicant should provide a validated analysis that shows consistency 
with the bird test results. The applicant should also demonstrate that 
the standard ice slab would produce less than the 1.5 % power/thrust 
loss. 
(B) 
Applicants should also demonstrate by test that any cracks, tears or 
blade piece breakout will not result in ‘unacceptable sustained power 
or thrust loss’ within 100 flight cycles (considered sufficient to allow 
