 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 105 of 262 
 
of the part. Substantiation programmes are agreed up-front and executed as part of 
the validation process.  
— Changes to such processes and practices are visible to all parties, and are not made 
without crossfunctional review and approval.  
— When a suspected non-conformance event occurs, it is reviewed with the 
appropriate skill mix prior to disposition.  
To achieve the necessary control of the application of those processes and practices, the 
procedures for repair and maintenance should be clearly articulated in the appropriate 
section(s) of the engine shop manual. These procedures should also include clearly 
delineated limits to these processes and practices that will ensure that Engine Critical 
Parts maintain attributes consistent with those assumed in the Engineering Plan.  
(c) 
Service Management Aspects of Static Pressure Loaded Parts or Other Parts 
The difference in approach to lifing for static pressure loaded parts or other parts means 
that in addition to the Approved Life, instructions for continued airworthiness may 
typically contain:  
— A defined periodic inspection interval in the airworthiness limitations section.  
— The inspection method(s) to be used.  
— A detailed description of the area(s) to be inspected.  
— Inspection result acceptability limits.  
— Acceptable repair methods, if applicable.  
— Any other instructions necessary to carry out the required inspection and allowable 
maintenance procedures.  
(6) 
Airworthiness Limitations Section 
(a) 
To ensure a closed-loop between the in-service parts and the Engineering Plan, the 
importance of the limits to the repair and maintenance of Engine Critical Parts should be 
highlighted in the Engine manuals required by CS-E 25. Further, since inappropriate repair 
or maintenance could impact the integrity of the part in a hazardous manner, visibility 
should be provided through the airworthiness limitations section (ALS) of instructions for 
continued airworthiness. Wording as, or similar to, that shown below should be placed in 
the appropriate section of the ALS.  
“The following airworthiness limitations have been substantiated based on engineering 
analysis that assumes this product will be operated and maintained using the procedures 
and inspections provided in the instructions for continued airworthiness supplied with 
this product by the Type Certificate holder, or its licensees. For Engine Critical Parts and 
parts that influence Engine Critical Parts, any repair, modification or maintenance 
procedures not approved by the Type Certificate holder, or its licensees, or any 
substitution of such parts not supplied by the Type Certificate holder, or its licensees, 
may materially affect these limits.”  
(b) 
For engines with OEI ratings, the airworthiness limitations section should include a 
method for accounting for the number of cycles used in operation at the OEI ratings. This 
may be accomplished by adding a finite number of cycles to the expended life of the 
affected Engine Critical Parts or by using appropriate life reduction factors for each of the 
OEI power excursions. 
