 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 24 of 262 
 
OEI ratings can be attained and sustained. This specification has a bearing on both 
power assurance procedures and instructions for continued airworthiness. The 
mandatory maintenance following the use of 30-Second or 2-Minute OEI rating 
should be capable of identifying and correcting any component distress which 
could significantly reduce subsequent Engine reliability or prevent the Engine from 
achieving or sustaining further application of the OEI ratings.  
The applicant should provide evidence by endurance test results or analysis based 
on test data of the endurance tests, and/or with other certification tests and 
service experience of similar type and design of engines, to show that the power 
at 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI ratings is achievable and can be sustained for the 
respective duration at any time between overhauls or major maintenance of the 
Engine.  
(ii) 
Essential to the establishment of mandatory maintenance instructions is a 
thorough knowledge of the potential damage incurred with use of the 30-Second 
and 2-Minute OEI ratings and, more importantly, the remaining margin to 
component Failure or reduced Engine performance due to use of these OEI ratings. 
The certification procedures for the 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI ratings 
emphasise demonstrating design adequacy by endurance testing and by specific 
margin tests for turbine temperature, rotor speeds, etc. An understanding of 
operating margins to various Failure modes when operating at the 30-Second and 
2-Minute OEI ratings is needed for establishing adequate instructions for 
continued airworthiness. These Failure modes should be determined and validated 
by appropriate methods or experience.  
(iii) 
The applicant should undertake the necessary actions, including instructions in 
Engine manuals, to make sure that the operators are aware of the need and 
understand the procedures to properly collect and return the information 
necessary for the applicant to monitor the adequacy of the prescribed mandatory 
maintenance actions. 
(d) 
In-service Engine evaluation programme 
(i) 
In order to comply with CS-E 25(b)(2), an in-service Engine evaluation programme 
to assure the continued adequacy of the instructions for continued airworthiness 
and of power availability data should be provided and be approved by the Agency 
prior to certification. 
The intent of this programme is to obtain relevant data concerning Engine 
hardware condition and power availability at various stages in the life of the Engine 
hardware critical to the achievement of the ratings and to compare that data to 
corresponding data observed during the certification process that defined the 
instructions for continued airworthiness.  
Differences may exist in hardware condition and power availability characteristics 
from in-service engines that have not experienced any usage of the 30-Second or 
2-Minute OEI ratings versus similar parameters that existed prior to the two-hour 
additional endurance test of CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii). 
Similarly, differences may exist in hardware condition and power assurance 
characteristics from in-service engines after usage of the 30-Second or 2-Minute 
OEI ratings versus similar parameters observed following the two-hour additional 
endurance test of CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii). 
