 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 219 of 262 
 
(A) 
All components that are critical to achieving the run-on criteria of CS-E 800(c) 
are included in the component test; and  
(B) 
The components tested under (A) above are subsequently installed in a 
representative Engine for a run-on demonstration in accordance with CS-E 
800(c)(1)(v), except that steps 1 and 2 of CS-E 800(c)(1)(v) are replaced by a 
unique 14-minutes step at a thrust not less than 50% of Rated Take-off 
Thrust after the Engine is started and stabilized; and  
(C) 
Dynamic effects that would have been experienced during a full Engine test 
can be shown to be negligible with respect to meeting the specifications of 
CS-E 800(c).  
(4) 
Limit exceedances may be permitted to occur during the tests of CS-E 800(c), (d) and (e). 
Any limit exceedance must be recorded and shown to be acceptable under CS-E 700.  
(5) 
For an Engine that incorporates an inlet protection device, compliance with CS-E 800 
must be established with the device functioning and the Engine approval must be 
endorsed accordingly.  
(6) 
If compliance with all of the specifications of CS-E 800 is not established, the Engine 
approval will be endorsed accordingly by restricting the Engine installations to those 
where birds cannot strike the Engine or be ingested by the Engine or adversely restrict 
the airflow into the Engine.  
(7) 
An Engine to be installed in a multi-Engine Rotorcraft does not need to comply with the 
medium- or small-bird specifications of CS-E 800(d), but the Engine approval will be 
endorsed accordingly.  
(8) 
The Engine inlet throat area, as used in CS-E 800 to determine the bird quantity and mass, 
must be established and identified as a limitation on the inlet throat area in the 
instructions for installation.  
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
AMC E 800 Bird Strike and Ingestion 
(1) 
Ingestion tests 
(a) 
Single large bird 
(i) 
The applicant is required to provide an analysis substantiating the definition of the 
'most critical exposed location' (CS-E 800(b)(1)(iii)). Determination of this location 
should include evidence where necessary on:  
— the effect of the bird strike on rotating components (excluding any spinner); 
— the compressor casing strength; 
— the possibility of multiple blade Failures;  
— the strength of the Engine structure and main shafts relative to the unbalance 
and the excess torque that are likely to occur.  
(ii) 
To comply with CS-E 800(b)(1)(ii)(A), rig tests may be used to determine whether a 
bird of a particular size will pass through the inlet.  
