 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 52 of 262 
 
(f) 
Unintentional accumulation of hazardous quantities of flammable fluid within the Engine must 
be prevented by draining and venting. 
(g) 
Those features of the Engine which form part of the mounting structure or Engine attachment 
points must be Fireproof, either by construction or by protection, unless: 
(1)  
This is not required for the particular aircraft installation, and in this case, this shall be 
declared in accordance with CS-E 30; or 
(2)  
the Engine is a Piston Engine that fulfils the following conditions:  
(i)  
The Engine mounting structure must be designed to be fail-safe so that in the case 
of a Failure of one load path, the remaining mounting structure is able to support 
the Engine under the loads and thermal conditions as specified under paragraph 
(ii) and (iii) below.  
(ii)  
Those features of the Engine that form part of the mounting structure or Engine 
attachment points shall be at least Fire-resistant.  
(A)  
The mounting structure and Engine attachment points shall be able to 
sustain the limit flight loads that are appropriate for a typical aircraft 
installation for which the Engine is intended, including Engine thrust and 
torque for Maximum Continuous Power, without Failure for 5 minutes under 
the fire test conditions of AMC E 130(4).  
This ability shall be demonstrated by analysis or by tests for all mounting 
structures and attachment points.  
If a test is selected, then the test shall be performed to demonstrate the 
ability of the most critical elements of the Engine mounting system or 
attachment points to retain the Engine under the loads specified above and 
in accordance with the fire test conditions of AMC E 130(4).  
(B)  
At the end of the 5-minute period, it is assumed that the Engine will be shut 
down. Shutdown loads shall be evaluated.  
Under the fire conditions as specified in paragraph (ii)(A) above, the 
mounting structure and the Engine attachment points shall be able to 
sustain flight loads of 0.5 g/1.5 g, superimposed with the evaluated 
shutdown loads, without Failure. This shall be demonstrated by analysis or 
test.  
(iii)  
After 5 minutes of fire application according to paragraph (ii) above, and until the 
end of 15 minutes, the Engine is assumed to be shut down. Under the fire 
conditions of (ii)(A) above, the other remaining features of the Engine mounting 
structure shall have sufficient static strength to withstand the maximum loads 
expected during the remainder of the flight.  
In the absence of a more rational analysis, a load factor of 70 per cent of 
manoeuvre loads and (separately) 40 per cent of gust loads may be applied.  
(iv)  
If they are not specified, the loads referred to in paragraph (ii) and (iii) above shall 
be considered to be ultimate loads. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
