 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 193 of 262 
 
In assessing whether data from an Engine air data probe is critical, the Engine system(s) 
response to erroneous in-range data and to data during transitions to/from icing conditions 
should be considered. 
Note: If Engine air data probe signals are used by the aircraft system(s) on a CS-25 aeroplane, 
the aeroplane manufacturer will be responsible for showing that the involved Engine air data 
probe complies with CS 25.1324 (including rain conditions). 
(6) 
Ice Protection Systems Activation and Deactivation 
The ice ingestion demonstration of paragraph (4) of this AMC addresses the threat of ice 
released from ice-protected surfaces, including the Engine air intake, following a delay in the 
selection of the ice protection system such as might occur during inadvertent entry into icing 
conditions.  
However, if satisfactory operation in any icing conditions relies on activation of Engine ice 
protection system(s), such as a raised idle function and/or an internal ice protection system, it 
should be demonstrated that the Engine characteristics are not unacceptably affected by the 
introduction of a representative delay in the initiation of operation of the Engine ice protection 
system(s), whether the activation is automatic or manual.  
In assessing the representative delay, the applicant should consider all factors that contribute 
to a delay in the activation of the ice protection system(s). 
This assessment should include, as appropriate, the time for ice condition detection, pilot 
response time, time for the system to become operational, and time for the system to become 
effective. 
In lack of other evidence, a delay of 2 minutes to switch on the IPS should be assumed. For 
thermal IPS, the time for the IPS to warm up should be added. 
Consideration should also be given to the effects of delays in deactivating an ice protection 
system after leaving icing conditions, or to inadvertent operation of an ice protection system in 
the absence of icing conditions. These effects should not compromise the mechanical integrity 
of the Engine or the effectiveness of the ice protection system (e.g. due to overheating and 
damage of certain components). 
(7) 
Instructions for installing and operating the Engine 
The applicant should declare all identified limitations, and all Engine conditions observed during 
Engine certification icing tests, to the installer in the manuals required by CS-E 20(d). These 
should include but are not limited to the following items (see background in the previous 
paragraphs of this AMC): 
— 
 the icing environment in which the engine has been certified; 
— 
 details of the assumed Engine installation, including protection device(s); 
— 
 operational altitude limitation; 
— 
 Engine ingestion capability such as size, thickness and density of the ice slab ingested; 
— 
 Engine ice ingestion protection device to be provided by the installer (when not part of 
the Engine configuration);  
— 
 effects that may be observed during or after the encounter with icing conditions, such as 
vibrations, temporary power/thrust loss, change in Engine power/thrust response; 
