 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 37 of 262 
 
For rotorcraft Engine Control Systems that have a power turbine speed governing mode, the 
specification of CS-E 50(a)(3) for modulation of Engine power should be interpreted as the 
ability to manage power as required to maintain power turbine speed within specified limits. 
(4) 
Integrity 
The intent of CS-E 50(c) is to establish Engine Control System integrity specifications consistent 
with operational specifications of the various applications. In particular, the introduction of 
Electronic Engine Control Systems should provide at least an equivalent level of safety and 
reliability for the Engine as achieved by Engines equipped with hydromechanical control and 
protection systems, and magneto systems. 
(5) 
Aircraft Supplied Power 
Engine Control Systems implemented in hydromechanical technology or technology other than 
electrical and electronic technology should inherently be compliant with CS-E 50(h). However, 
if the system has functions implemented electrically or electronically that depend on aircraft-
supplied electrical power, the system should be evaluated for compliance with this rule (see 
AMC 20-1 and AMC 20-3 for relevant interpretation). 
(6) 
Air Signal Lines 
CS-E 50(i) covers cases of ingress of foreign matter (e.g. sand, dust, water, or insects) which 
could result in blockage of the lines and result in an adverse effect on Engine operation. For 
example, the experience has shown that lines used for measuring the static pressure in the 
compressor of turbine Engines could be blocked by frozen water, leading to a loss of power. 
Precautions should therefore be taken, such as use of protected openings, filters, drains for 
water, heating of the lines to prevent freezing of condensed water. Corrosion effects should 
also be addressed. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 50(e)  Rotor integrity 
The Engine control devices, systems and instruments referred to in CS-E 50(e) are usually provided in 
modern engines by over-speed protection and/or circuits which although they may be provided as 
independent devices are generally provided as part of the electronic Engine Control System. One 
acceptable method for showing compliance with the specification for "reasonable assurance" of 
providing functionality of the protection systems or circuits is to have them periodically tested by built-
in test equipment (BITE) or a functional test. 
In case of the over-speed protection system, the BITE test should provide complete test of the 
electrical/electronic part of the protection system. The need for inspections or tests of the mechanical 
or actuating part of the protection system should be based on the results of the safety analysis for this 
part. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 50(j) Controls - Engines having a 30-Second OEI Power Rating 
(1) 
The 30-Second OEI rating is intended to provide a rotorcraft with a power reserve in the event 
of one Engine becoming inoperative. The flight and operating conditions requiring use of this 
rating may create a high pilot workload to maintain safe flight. Therefore the 30-Second OEI 
rating should be applied and controlled by an automatic means that requires no pilot input or 
control other than termination command. Once activated, it automatically controls the 30-
