 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 59 of 262 
 
In accordance with CS-E 130(a), the applicant should evaluate the effect of fire on components 
conveying bleed air and evaluate whether Failure of such components could further increase 
the severity or duration of a fire within a fire zone.  
(8) 
Firewall 
The overall intent of CS-E 130(d)(2) is to provide specifications for the proper functioning of a 
firewall which are consistent with the aircraft specifications on firewalls. In no case should a 
hazardous quantity of flammable fluid or vapour pass around the firewall. Also, the firewall 
should contain the fire without resulting in a Hazardous Engine Effect.  
(9) 
Shielding 
The overall intent of CS-E 130(b) specification concerning the shielding and location of 
components is to minimise the possibility of liquid flammable fluids contacting ignition sources 
and igniting. Ignition sources include hot surfaces with temperatures at or above typical flash 
points for aviation fuels, oils, and hydraulic fluids, or any component that produces an electrical 
discharge. Compliance with this specification may be shown by installation of drainage shrouds 
around flammable fluid lines or fittings; installation of spray shields to deflect leaking fuel away 
from ignition sources, and general component location on the Engine which minimises the 
possibility of starting and supporting a fire. Therefore, the overall substantiation should show 
that leaked flammable fluid would be unlikely to impinge on an ignition source to the extent of 
starting and supporting a fire.  
[Amdt No: E/1]  
[Amdt No: E/5] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
CS-E 135  Electrical Bonding  
(See AMC E 135) 
Any components, modules, equipment and accessories that are susceptible to or are potential sources 
of static discharges or currents from electrical Faults, must be designed and constructed so as to be 
grounded to the main Engine earth, as necessary to minimise the accumulation of electro-static or 
electrical charge that would cause: 
— Injury from electrical shock, 
— Unintentional ignition in areas where flammable fluids or vapours could be present, 
— Unacceptable interference with electrical or electronic equipment.  
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 135  Electrical Bonding 
Electrical bonding is a means to protect against the effects of electro-static discharges and currents 
from electrical Faults. The overall intent of CS-E 135 is to ensure that: 
(i) 
a main Engine earth is provided. This is generally achieved by showing that all the elements of 
the Engine carcass are electrically bonded together. 
(ii) 
a current path for electrical bonding exists between certain components that are mounted 
externally to the Engine and the main Engine earth.  
