 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 218 of 262 
 
(ii)  
Followed by 2 minutes at between 30 and 35 % of the maximum rated Take-off 
Power or Thrust.  
(iii)  
Followed by 1 minute with the power or thrust increased from that set in 
subparagraph (e)(6)(ii), by between 5 and 10 % of the maximum rated Take-off 
Power or Thrust.  
(iv)  
Followed by 2 minutes with the power or thrust reduced from that set in 
subparagraph (e)(6)(iii), by between 5 and 10 % of maximum rated Take-off Power 
or Thrust.  
(v)  
Followed by a minimum of 1 minute at ground idle, then an Engine shutdown. The 
durations specified are times at the defined conditions.  
The power lever movement between each condition shall be 10 seconds or less in 
duration, except power lever movements that are allowed within subparagraph 
(e)(6)(iii), that are not limited, and those for setting power under subparagraph 
(e)(6)(iv), which shall be 30 seconds or less in duration.  
(7)  
Applicants must show that no unsafe condition will result if any Engine operating limit is 
exceeded during the run-on demonstration.  
(8)  
The core Engine flocking bird ingestion test of subparagraph (e) may be combined with 
the medium flocking bird test of subparagraph (d), if the climb fan rotor speed calculated 
in subparagraph (e)(1) is within 1 % of the first stage rotor speed required by 
subparagraph (d)(1).  
(f) 
Impact. The impact against the front of the Engine of the largest medium bird required by CS-E 
800(d)(1)(v)(A) and of the large bird required by CS-E 800(b)(1)(ii) must be evaluated for 
compliance with CS-E 540 under the Engine conditions specified for the ingestion tests. The bird 
speed must be the critical bird ingestion speed for the critical locations within the range of 
airspeeds for normal flight operations up to 450 m (1 500 ft) above ground level, but not less 
than V1 minimum for Engines to be installed on aeroplanes or higher than the speeds for the 
ingestion tests.  
The impact evaluation may be carried out separately from the ingestion evaluation; however, 
any damage resulting from the impact on the front of the Engine must be assessed in relation 
to consequential damage on the rotating blades.  
(g) 
General  
(1) 
Engine tests must be performed as required under CS-E 800(b), (c), (d) and (e) unless it is 
agreed that alternative evidence such as from Engine tests, rig tests, analysis or an 
appropriate combination of these, may come from the spplicant’s experience with 
engines of comparable size, design, construction, performance and handling 
characteristics, obtained during development, certification or operation.  
(2) 
The Engine test described in CS-E 800(b)(1), with regard to the single large bird, may be 
waived if it can be shown by test or analysis that the specifications of CS-E 810(a) are 
more severe.  
(3) 
Compliance with CS-E 800(c), in place of an Engine test, may be shown by:  
(i) 
incorporating the run-on specifications of CS-E 800(c)(1)(v) into the Engine test 
demonstration specified in CS-E 800(b)(1); or  
(ii) 
using a component test at the conditions of CS-E 800(b)(1) or (c)(1), subject to the 
following additional conditions:  
