 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 130 of 262 
 
— 
Where test speeds required by CS-E 650(b) and (c) are not achieved, by 
agreement with the Agency as described in paragraph (4)(b) of this AMC. The 
validated analysis would be expected to cover the speed range(s) or 
operating conditions not achieved during testing. 
— 
Where instrumentation has been lost, for example due to the extreme test 
conditions. The validated analysis would be expected to cover the speed 
range(s) or operating conditions for which instrumentation was lost. 
— 
Where stresses are not measured directly at critical locations. In that case, 
the peak stresses may be derived based on measurements taken at 
reference locations. This requires a detailed understanding of the modal 
composition of the response and the associated mode shapes to derive the 
relationship between each location. 
— 
Where it proves necessary to justify the acceptability of any significant 
responses whether observed or predicted. 
(iii) 
Update of the Validated Analysis 
It is expected that the applicant may regularly update the validated analysis, for 
instance following new testing performed or service experience. The updated 
validated analysis and/or its domain of applicability should be reviewed and 
accepted by the Agency. 
(15) Inspection Specifications 
The pre-certification activity necessary for determining which Engine components require 
verification by Engine test and also for determining the proper location of Engine test 
instrumentation will typically include substantive tests and analyses for determining 
component (or system) natural frequencies, mode shapes, steady-state mean stress and 
vibratory stress distributions. These development activities will generate engineering data 
essential to supporting the certification test and should be exempt from formal Agency approval 
of test plans and reports. Inspection of type design hardware in accordance with the 
requirements of point 21.A.33 of Part 21 should be limited to only those pertinent Engine 
components and associated instrumentation that constitute the certification Engine test or the 
baseline tests supporting the validated analysis.  
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/4] 
[Amdt No: E/7] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
CS-E 660 Fuel Pressure and Temperature 
(See AMC E 660) 
A substantiation must be made to establish the minimum and maximum fuel pressure and fuel 
temperature limits to be approved for the Engine. The details of the substantiation, which may involve 
rig tests and/or complete Engine tests, must be agreed with the Agency. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
