 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 34 of 262 
 
(b) 
Control Transitions. It must be demonstrated that, when a Fault or Failure results in a change 
from one Control Mode to another, or from one channel to another, or from the Primary System 
to the Back-up System, the change occurs so that:  
(1) 
The Engine does not exceed any of its operating limitations, 
(2) 
The Engine does not surge, stall, flame-out or experience unacceptable thrust or power 
changes or oscillations, or other unacceptable characteristics, and 
(3) 
If the flight crew is required to initiate, respond to or be aware of the Control Mode 
change, there must be provision for a means to alert the crew. This provision must be 
described in the Engine instructions for installation and the crew action described in the 
Engine instructions for operation. 
The magnitude of any change in thrust or power and the associated transition time must 
be identified and described in the Engine instructions for installation and operation.  
(c) 
Engine Control System Failures. The Engine Control System must be designed and constructed 
so that:  
(1) 
The rate for Loss of Thrust (or Power) Control (LOTC/LOPC) events, consistent with the 
safety objective associated with the intended aircraft application, can be achieved, 
(2) 
In the Full-up Configuration, the system is essentially single Fault tolerant for electrical 
and electronic Failures with respect to LOTC/LOPC events. 
(3) 
Single Failures of Engine Control System components do not result in a Hazardous Engine 
Effect, 
(4) 
Foreseeable Failures or malfunctions leading to local events in the intended aircraft 
installation, such as fire, overheat, or Failures leading to damage to Engine Control 
System components, must not result in a Hazardous Engine Effect due to Engine Control 
System Failures or malfunctions. 
(d) 
System Safety Assessment. When complying with CS-E 210 or CS-E 510, a system safety 
assessment must be completed for the Engine Control System. This assessment must identify 
Faults or Failures that result in a change in thrust or power, a transmission of erroneous data, 
or an effect on Engine operability together with the predicted frequency of occurrence of these 
Faults or Failures. (See also CS-E 110(e))  
(e) 
Protection Systems. (See AMC E 50(e)) 
(1) 
When electronic over-speed protection systems are provided, the design must include a 
means for testing the system to establish the availability of the protection function. The 
means must be such that a complete test of the system can be achieved in the minimum 
number of cycles. If the test is not fully automatic, the specification for a manual test 
must be contained in the Engine instructions for operation. 
(2) 
When over-speed protection is provided through hydromechanical or mechanical means, 
it must be demonstrated by test or other acceptable means that the over-speed function 
remains available between inspection and maintenance periods. 
(f) 
Software and Programmable Logic Devices. All associated software and encoded logic must be 
designed, implemented and verified to minimise the existence of errors by using an approved 
method consistent with the criticality of the performed functions.  
(g) 
Aircraft Supplied Data. 
