 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 51 of 262 
 
(c) 
Certain parts (including Engine Critical Parts, see CS-E 515) as may be required by the Agency 
must be marked and the constructor must maintain records related to this marking such that it 
is possible to establish the relevant manufacturing history of the parts.  
(d) 
Turbine Engine parts, the incorrect assembly of which could result in Hazardous Engine Effects, 
must be designed so as to minimise the risk of incorrect assembly or, where this is not practical, 
permanently marked so as to indicate their correct position when assembled. 
(e) 
As part of the system safety assessment of CS-E 50(d), the possibility and subsequent effect of 
incorrect fitment of instruments, sensors or connectors must be assessed. Where necessary, 
design precautions must be taken to prevent incorrect configuration of the system.  
CS-E 120  Identification 
(a) 
The Engine identification must comply with points 21.A.801(a) and (b), and point 21.A.805 of 
Part 21. 
(b) 
Major Engine modules that can be changed independently in service must be suitably identified 
so as to ensure traceability of parts and to enable proper control over the interchangeability of 
such modules with different Engine variants. 
[Amdt No: E/7] 
CS-E 130  Fire Protection 
(See AMC E 130) 
(a) 
The design and construction of the Engine and the materials used must minimise the probability 
of the occurrence and spread of fire during normal operation and Failure conditions and must 
minimise the effects of such a fire. In addition, the design and construction of Engines must 
minimise the probability of the occurrence of an internal fire that could result in structural 
Failure or Hazardous Engine Effects. 
(b) 
Except as required by CS-E 130(c), each external line, fitting and other component which 
contains or conveys flammable fluid during normal Engine operation must be at least Fire 
Resistant. Components must be shielded or located to safeguard against the ignition of leaking 
flammable fluid.  
(c) 
Tanks which contain flammable fluid and any associated shut-off means and supports, which 
are part of and attached to the Engine, must be Fireproof either by construction or by 
protection, unless damage by fire will not cause leakage or spillage of a hazardous quantity of 
flammable fluid. For a Piston Engine having an integral oil sump of less than 23.7 litres capacity, 
the oil sump need not be Fireproof nor be enclosed by a Fireproof shield but still must comply 
with CS-E 130(b). 
(d) 
An Engine component designed, constructed and installed to act as a firewall must be - 
(1) 
Fireproof; and, 
(2) 
Constructed so that no hazardous quantity of air, fluid or flame can pass around or 
through the firewall; and, 
(3) 
Protected against corrosion. 
(e) 
In addition to specifications of CS-E 130(a) and (b), Engine control system components which 
are located in a designated fire zone must be at least Fire Resistant  
