 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 82 of 262 
 
(iii) 
Multiple Failures referred to in CS-E 510(d) or that result in the Hazardous Engine 
Effects defined in CS-E 510(g)(2). 
(2) 
A summary must be made of those Failures that could result in Major Engine Effects or 
Hazardous Engine Effects as defined in CS-E 510(g), together with an estimate of the 
probability of occurrence of those effects. Any Engine Critical Part must be clearly 
identified in this summary.  
(3) 
It must be shown that Hazardous Engine Effects are predicted to occur at a rate not in 
excess of that defined as Extremely Remote (probability less than 10-7 per Engine flight 
hour). The estimated probability for individual Failures may be insufficiently precise to 
enable the total rate for Hazardous Engine Effects to be assessed. For Engine certification, 
it is acceptable to consider that the intent of this paragraph is achieved if the probability 
of a Hazardous Engine Effect arising from an individual Failure can be predicted to be not 
greater than 10-8 per Engine flight hour (see also CS-E 510(c)). 
(4) 
It must be shown that Major Engine Effects are predicted to occur at a rate not in excess 
of that defined as Remote (probability less than 10-5 per Engine flight hour). 
(b) 
If significant doubt exists as to the effects of Failures and likely combination of Failures, any 
assumption may be required to be verified by test. 
(c) 
It is recognised that the probability of Primary Failures of certain single elements cannot be 
sensibly estimated in numerical terms. If the Failure of such elements is likely to result in 
Hazardous Engine Effects, reliance must be placed on meeting the prescribed integrity 
specifications of CS-E 515 in order to support the objective of an Extremely Remote probability 
of Failure. These instances must be stated in the safety analysis as required in CS-E 510(a)(2). 
(d) 
If reliance is placed on a safety system to prevent a Failure progressing to cause Hazardous 
Engine Effects, the possibility of a safety system Failure in combination with a basic Engine 
Failure must be included in the analysis. Such a safety system may include safety devices, 
instrumentation, early warning devices, maintenance checks, and other similar equipment or 
procedures. If items of a safety system are outside the control of the applicant, the assumptions 
of the safety analysis with respect to the reliability of these parts must be clearly stated in the 
analysis and identified in accordance with CS-E 30. 
(e) 
If the acceptability of the safety analysis is dependent on one or more of the following items, 
they must be identified in the analysis and appropriately substantiated. 
(1) 
Maintenance actions being carried out at stated intervals. This includes the verification 
of the serviceability of items which could fail in a dormant manner. When necessary for 
preventing the occurrence of Hazardous Engine Effects at a rate in excess of Extremely 
Remote, the maintenance intervals must be published in the airworthiness limitations 
section of the instructions for continued airworthiness required under CS-E 25. If errors 
in maintenance of the Engine, including the Engine Control System, could lead to 
Hazardous Engine Effects, appropriate procedures must be included in the relevant 
Engine manuals.  
(2) 
Verification of the satisfactory functioning of safety or other devices at pre-flight or other 
stated periods. The details of this verification must be published in the appropriate 
manual. 
(3) 
The provision of specific instrumentation not otherwise required. 
(4) 
Flight crew actions. These actions must be identified in the operating instructions 
required under CS-E 20(d).  
