 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 234 of 262 
 
(j) 
Where a number of rotors are of similar design, are madeof materials to the same 
specification and are subjected to similar stress conditions, temperature levels and 
gradients, it is permissible for compliance with CS-E 840(a) to test only the most critical 
rotor, with respect to burst. This would require determination of the burst speed for each 
rotor in order to select the most critical which is assumed to have the smaller margin to 
burst above the speeds specified in CS-E 840(b). 
The most adverse combination of temperatures and temperature gradients which is 
possible throughout the entire operating envelope may vary for individual rotors in an 
assembly.  
The most critical rotor with respect to burst might not be the most critical with respect 
to growth. Consideration should be given to the components surrounding each rotor in 
order to determine the most critical rotor with respect to growth for compliance with CS-
E 840(d). 
(k) 
Appropriate tests or analysis based on tests should establish the burst speed of each fan, 
compressor, and turbine rotor design in relation to the most critical condition prescribed 
in CS-E 840(b) and this should be reported in the certification documentation. These burst 
speeds should be based on the most adverse combination of dimensional tolerances and 
material properties. 
(l) 
For a multi stage rotor in which the rotors do not meet the conditions of similarity as 
described in paragraph (2)(j) above, the compliance of each rotor stage with CS-E 840 
should be substantiated using representative test data. 
(3) 
Acceptable means of compliance may include 
(a) 
Testing a sample rotor on a rig or Engine at the conditions necessary to demonstrate that 
a minimum strength rotor would meet the specifications of CS-E 840. 
(b) 
Where the conditions of CS-E 840(b)(1) or (b)(2) are the most critical, testing a sample 
rotor for the required period of time in an Engine at not less than 96% of the speed 
necessary to demonstrate that a minimum strength rotor would meet the specifications 
of CS-E 840 provided that this resultant reduced test condition is not less severe than that 
required to demonstrate compliance with CS-E 840(b)(3) or (b)(4) and, it is shown from a 
validated method of burst prediction that burst would not have occurred at the 
conditions of CS-E 840(b)(1) or (b)(2). 
(c) 
An analytical modelling method based on representative test data may be acceptable 
provided that:  
(i) 
The model has been validated by comparison with results from specimen and rotor 
tests and 
(ii) 
Its use is limited to rotors with material, geometry, stress, and temperature 
conditions encompassed by those used to construct the model and 
(iii) 
The predictions show that the certification standard rotor is not more critical, with 
respect to burst and growth, than any similar rotor for which substantiation has 
been demonstrated both by rotor test and model prediction. 
(d) 
Any test may be continued to rotor burst after the required time duration by increasing 
the speed until the rotor bursts. If the applicant chooses this method, then it should be 
shown that: 
