 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART F — TURBINE ENGINES - 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND OPERATIONAL 
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 255 of 262 
 
The factors and limitations used throughout this AMC, and in Tables 2 and 3 in particular, are 
examples and are used for illustrative purposes only. However, where supporting data and 
analysis are not available, the values quoted may be used as default values. 
The TLD analysis should establish the dispatchable configurations. The TLD report should define 
the dispatchable configurations in terms of the Faults and their associated dispatch intervals. 
The TLD analysis, typically a Markov analysis or Fault tree analysis, should show that the fleet-
wide average reliability or “average LOTC/LOPC rate,” which includes full-up as well as degraded 
system dispatches (including those resulting from Uncovered Faults), meets the required 
LOTC/LOPC rate for the assumed installation (see also AMC 20-3). 
The TLD analysis that substantiates compliance with the required LOTC/LOPC rate should be 
summarised in a graph. An example of such a graph is shown in Figure 1. The ordinates of the 
graph should be the estimate of fleet-wide average LOTC/LOPC rate of the EECS versus the 
dispatch interval(s) (in hours) for the EECS Faults. 
If dispatchable EECS Faults have been grouped into two categories, a short-time dispatch (or 
repair) category and a long time dispatch (or repair) category (see paragraph (6) below), the 
ordinate of the graph should show a long time dispatch interval of at least twice the length of 
time of the dispatch interval being requested. When calculating the LOTC/LOPC rate as a 
function of the long time dispatch interval, the assumed short-time dispatch interval should be 
twice the requested short-time dispatch interval. This factor of two is used to cover 
uncertainties in the analysis itself.  
In the TLD analysis, all Uncovered Faults should be assumed to lead to LOTC/LOPC unless it can 
be shown that they do not directly result in an LOTC/LOPC. The TLD analysis should provide the 
rationale and substantiation for the Failure rates used for Uncovered Faults. 
(5) 
Certification specifications for all dispatchable configurations. 
(a)  
CS-E 1030(b) and (c) prescribes the requirements for all dispatchable configurations. 
(b)  
CS-E 1030(b)(3) is directed at protection systems within the EECS that provide the sole 
means of mitigation from Hazardous Engine Effects. There may be some cases that have 
a degree of protection from other sources. Such cases may best be addressed through 
the MMEL rather than the TLD.  
(c) 
CS-E 1030(b)(5) stipulates that when dispatching with single or multiple Faults, there can 
be no further single Failure in the Engine Control System that would create a Hazardous 
Engine Effect. For example, it is necessary to ensure that the over-speed protection 
system function is operational at dispatch to guard against a Hazardous Engine Effect 
resulting from a single additional Fault driving fuel flow upwards.  
(d)  
CS-E 1030(b)(6) requires that the applicant shows that the Engine, in all dispatchable 
configurations, continues to operate satisfactorily in the external threat levels for the 
system and remain compliant with the corresponding certification specifications. The 
Engine in each permitted TLD configuration should maintain the capability of operating 
through the external threats considered during Engine certification e.g. icing, rain, hail, 
birds, EMI, HIRF and lightning.  
Relative to HIRF and lightning, compliance is typically, but not always, addressed by 
conducting the tests in the worst-case dispatchable configuration. This worst case is often 
represented by single channel operation. The other external threats are typically 
addressed by analysis.  
