 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 217 of 262 
 
(ii)  
A sustained reduction in power or thrust to less than flight idle power or thrust 
during the run-on segment specified under paragraph (e)(3) below.  
(iii)  
An Engine shutdown during the required run-on demonstration specified in 
paragraph (e)(3) below.  
(iv)  
The conditions specified in paragraph CS-E 800(b)(2).  
(3) 
The following test schedule shall be used:  
(i) 
Ingestion followed by 1 minute without any power lever movement.  
(ii)  
Followed by power lever movement to increase the power or thrust to not less 
than 50 % of the maximum rated Take-off Power or Thrust, if the initial bird 
ingestion resulted in a reduction in power or thrust below that level.  
(iii)  
Followed by 13 minutes at not less than 50 % of the maximum rated Take-off Power 
or Thrust.  
(iv) 
Followed by 2 minutes at between 30 and 35 % of the maximum rated Take-off 
Power or Thrust.  
(v) 
Followed by 1 minute with the power or thrust increased by between 5 and 10 % 
of the maximum rated Take-off Power or Thrust from that set in subparagraph 
(e)(3)(iv) of this paragraph.  
(vi) 
Followed by 2 minutes with the power or thrust reduced by between 5 and 10 % 
of maximum rated Take-off Power or Thrust from that set in subparagraph (e)(3)(v) 
of this paragraph.  
(vii) 
Followed by a minimum of 1 minute at ground idle, then an Engine shutdown. The 
durations specified are the times at the defined conditions.  
 
The power lever movement between each condition shall be 10 seconds or less in 
duration, except power lever movements that are allowed within subparagraph 
(e)(3)(iii), that are not limited, and those for setting power under subparagraph 
(e)(3)(iv), which shall be 30 seconds or less in duration.  
(4)  
If it is shown by test or analysis that no bird material will be ingested into the Engine core 
under the conditions of subparagraph (e)(1), then the core Engine ingestion test shall be 
performed with one bird, using the heaviest bird specified in the second column of Table 
A, and ingested at a bird speed of 200 knots. Prior to the ingestion, the Engine must be 
stabilised at the mechanical rotor speed of the first exposed stage or stages that is 
consistent with a minimum approach idle setting, on a standard day, at 3 000 ft above 
ground level. The bird must be targeted on the first exposed rotating stage or stages at 
the blade aerofoil height measured at the leading edge that would maximise the bird 
material being ingested into the Engine core.  
(5)  
Ingestion into the Engine core of a bird under the conditions prescribed in (e)(4) must not 
cause any of the following:  
(i) 
 an Engine shutdown during the required run-on demonstration specified in 
paragraph (e)(6) below;  
(ii)  
the conditions specified in paragraph CS-E 800(b)(2).  
(6)  
The following test schedule must be used:  
(i)  
Ingestion followed by 1 minute without any power lever movement.  
