 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 208 of 262 
 
(F) 
When testing low-power critical points (i.e. the minimum flameout and/or 
rundown margin), conduct tests with ingestion during the following 
transient operating conditions: 
(α) 
accelerate the Engine with a 1-Second throttle movement to the rated 
Take-off Power or Thrust from the minimum rotor speed defined by 
the critical point analysis; and 
(β) 
stabilise the Engine at 50% of the rated Take-off Power or Thrust with 
ingestion, then, with a 1-Second throttle movement, decelerate to the 
minimum rotor speed defined by the critical point analysis; or 
(γ) 
if test conditions or test facility limitations prevent transient testing as 
defined in (α) and (β) above, the applicant may propose alternative 
test criteria, provided that such alternative test criteria (and any 
complementary substantiation) validates that the Engine has 
sufficient operability margins to account for likely flight operations 
such as missed approaches (i.e., go-around) and likely throttle 
movements during descent. 
(G) 
Conduct the thermal shock critical point test by delivering rain for 3 minutes 
at the critical Power/Thrust condition following a normal stabilisation period 
without water ingestion. The maximum rain ingestion rate should occur 
within 10 seconds. 
(v) 
Probable factors 
It should be demonstrated by test or analysis, that the Engine tested in accordance 
with paragraph (5)(c)(iv) of this AMC would have operated acceptably if it was 
exposed to other probable factors associated with a rain or hail encounter. These 
other probable factors would include, but are not limited to, typical Engine 
performance losses, installation effects, and typical autothrottle power excursions.  
(vi)  
Acceptance criteria  
Acceptable Engine operation precludes flameout, rundown, continued or non- 
recoverable surge or stall, or a loss of acceleration and deceleration capability. A 
momentary flameout, surge or stall that arrests itself without operational 
intervention (e.g. without throttle manipulation) is acceptable. If, after test, it is 
found that damage has occurred, further running or other evidence may be 
required to show that subsequent Failures resulting from the damage are unlikely 
to occur before the damage is rectified. Engine performance should be measured 
before and after the rain and hail ingestion tests to assess steady-state 
performance changes. Data should be normalised according to the applicant's 
standard practices and the evaluation of sustained loss or degradation of power or 
thrust should encompass the full range of Engine power or thrust.  
If compliance with these criteria is dependent upon the functioning of an 
automatic protection system, such as continuous ignition, auto-relight, surge 
recovery system, then the availability of this system is considered to be critical for 
dispatch.  
(A) 
Sustained power or thrust loss 
The sustained power or thrust loss as a result of a shift or error in measured 
thrust or power against the primary thrust or power set parameter(s) 
