 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 88 of 262 
 
It is acceptable to take account of aircraft-supplied equipment (fuel cut-off means, 
etc.) to protect against the “complete inability” to shut down the Engine.  
The inclusion of this item within the Hazardous Engine Effects should not preclude 
hardware or software intended to protect against inadvertent Engine shutdown, 
including aircraft logic to mitigate against the inadvertent shutdown of all engines.  
(e) 
Major Engine Effects 
Compliance with CS-E 510(a)(4) can be shown if the individual Failures or combinations 
of Failures resulting in Major Engine Effects have probabilities not greater than 10-5 per 
Engine flight hour. No summation of probabilities of Failure modes resulting in the same 
Major Engine Effect is required to show compliance with this rule.  
Major Engine Effects are likely to significantly increase crew workload, or reduce the 
safety margins. Not all the effects listed below may be applicable to all engines or 
installation, owing to different design features, and the list is not intended to be 
exhaustive.  
Typically, the following may be considered as Major Engine Effects:  
— Controlled fires (i.e., those brought under control by shutting down the Engine or by 
onboard extinguishing systems).  
— Case burn-through where it can be shown that there is no propagation to Hazardous 
Engine Effects.  
— Release of low-energy parts where it can be shown that there is no propagation to 
Hazardous Engine Effects.  
— Vibration levels that result in crew discomfort.  
— Concentration of toxic products in the Engine bleed air for the cabin sufficient to 
degrade crew performance.  
— Thrust in the opposite direction to that commanded by the pilot, below the level 
defined as hazardous.  
— Loss of integrity of the load path of the Engine supporting system without actual 
Engine separation.  
— Generation of thrust greater than maximum rated thrust.  
— Significant uncontrollable thrust oscillation.  
The concentration of toxic products in the Engine bleed air may be interpreted as the 
generation and delivery of toxic products as a result of abnormal Engine operation that 
would incapacitate the crew or passengers, except that the products are slow-enough 
acting and/or are readily detectable so as to be stopped by crew action prior to 
incapacitation. Possible reductions in crew capabilities due to their exposure while acting 
in identifying and stopping the products should be considered, if appropriate. Since these 
concentrations are of interest to the installer, information on delivery rates and 
concentrations of toxic products in the Engine bleed air for the cabin should be provided 
to the installer as part of the Engine instructions for installation.  
(f) 
Minor Engine Effects. 
It is generally recognised that Engine Failures involving complete loss of thrust or power 
from the affected Engine can be expected to occur in service, and that the aircraft should 
