 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 140 of 262 
 
(A)  
For Engines for Aeroplanes:  
30 minutes at Maximum Continuous Power or Thrust followed by one 
hour at Continuous OEI Power or Thrust.  
(B) 
For Engines for Rotorcraft –  
Either (for Engines to be approved with a Continuous OEI rating) 
30 minutes at Maximum Continuous Power followed by 1 hour at 
Continuous OEI Power or (for Engines to be approved with a 30-
Minute OEI Rating) 1 hour at Maximum Continuous Power followed 
by 30 minutes at 30-Minute OEI Power. A Continuous OEI Rating and 
a 30-Minute OEI Rating at a higher power level can be cleared in the 
same test, if desired, by running 30 minutes at Maximum Continuous 
Power followed by 30 minutes at Continuous OEI Power and then 
30 minutes at 30-Minute OEI Power. 
For an Engine to be approved with the 30-Minute Power rating, the 
Engine must be run for continuous periods of 30 minutes at the power 
level and associated operating limitations of the 30-Minute Power 
rating. These periods must be alternated with periods at Maximum 
Continuous Power, or less. The accumulated total additional running 
time shall be 25 hours at the 30-Minute Power rating, and the time 
spent at ‘standard’ Take-off Power shall not be counted towards this 
total. 
Part 4  2 hours and 30 minutes covering the range in 15 approximately equal 
increments from Ground Idling, or, for rotorcraft Engines, minimum test bed 
idle, up to but not including Maximum Continuous Power.  
Part 5  30 minutes of accelerations and decelerations consisting of 6 cycles from 
Ground Idling, or, for rotorcraft Engines, minimum test bed idle, to Take-off 
Power or Thrust, maintaining Take-off Power or Thrust for a period of 30 
seconds, the remaining time being at Ground Idling, or, for rotorcraft 
Engines, minimum test bed idle.  
(ii) 
If only one additional rating is required, then the periods at the rating that is not 
required must be run at the power or thrust level appropriate to the next rating 
down the scale. 
(iii) 
If a constructor desires an en-route OEI rating for 30 minutes only, then the 
appropriate FAR 33.87 Schedule may be used in place of this Schedule. If this 
option is taken and a 2½ - Minute OEI Power rating is also desired, then the 
appropriate Schedule of FAR 33.87 must be used. 
(3) 
For Engines with 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI Power ratings (See AMC E 740(c)(3)), 
(i) 
If a Continuous OEI Power rating is associated with the 30-Second and 2-Minute 
OEI Power ratings, the following tests must be conducted and must be 
complemented by the additional test of CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii): 
25 six-hour stages, each stage comprising – 
Part 1 One hour of alternate 5 minute periods at Take-off Power and minimum test 
bed idle.  
Part 2  
