 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 86 of 262 
 
compliance with CS-E 510 (a)(3), can only be ensured through compliance with CS-
E 515, supplemented by CS-E 840 and CS-E 850. 
Blades 
The Engine must be designed to ensure that debris resulting from the shedding of 
compressor or turbine blades, either singly or in likely combinations, will be radially 
contained (see CS-E 520(c)(1)). 
Although blade Failures must be radially contained, it is possible that debris 
(typically lower-energy blade fragments) is released from the Engine, forward, 
rearward, or otherwise outside the Engine containment structure, as a result of the 
blade Failure. If this debris is released with an energy and trajectory that could 
cause an unsafe condition (refer to AMC1 21.A.3B(b)), such debris should be 
considered as uncontained high-energy debris causing a Hazardous Engine Effect. 
In order to demonstrate the Extremely Remote probability objective necessary for 
compliance with CS-E 510 (a)(3), the overall probability of occurrence of the unsafe 
condition should be assessed. 
The integrity specifications of CS-E 515 provide some reliability benefits when 
applied to a blade (particularly when it forms a part of a blisk (also named integrally 
bladed rotor)). However, these specifications do not provide a valid basis to 
demonstrate an Extremely Remote blade failure probability. Blade reliability is 
affected by many factors. Whilst some of these are addressed by CS-E 515 (e.g. 
low- and high-cycle fatigue, manufacturing quality, service management), others 
are not (e.g. foreign object damage). Engineering judgement based on available 
test and service experience of comparable designs should therefore be used as the 
basis for a conservative estimate of blade reliability. 
The likelihood of a blade failure resulting in an unsafe condition should be 
determined primarily based on debris energy and trajectories observed in testing 
and in service, along with an assessment of the trajectories which have the 
potential to impact the aircraft and cause an unsafe condition. Where possible, the 
threat to the safety of the aircraft should be assessed in coordination with the 
aircraft manufacturer, as this may allow some identified threats to be shown not 
to cause an unsafe condition when considering the particular installation. In any 
case, assumptions regarding the ability of the aircraft to withstand debris impact 
should be included in the Manuals required by CS-E 20(d). 
Other Sources of Uncontained High-Energy Debris 
The potential exists for other component(s) to be released from the Engine 
following Failure. For instance, service experience has shown that the rupture of 
the high-pressure casings can generate high-energy debris. Such Failures may 
therefore need to be considered as potentially causing the release of high-energy 
debris. 
In such cases, the probability that an unsafe condition results from the Failure 
should be assessed. An Extremely Remote probability must be demonstrated for 
compliance with CS-E 510 (a)(3). 
(iv) 
Toxic products. 
