 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 42 of 262 
 
(a) 
Forgings should be classified as Class 1, Class 2 or Class 3 parts in accordance with the 
following: 
— Class1 Those parts, the Failure of which could hazard the aircraft. 
— Class 2 Stressed parts not covered by the terms of Class 1.  
— Class 3 Unstressed or only lightly stressed parts, not covered by the terms of Class 1. 
The means of maintaining the required quality of all forgings should be established by 
such methods as analysis for correct chemical composition, tests of mechanical 
properties, microscopic examination, fracture examination, strength tests, radiographic 
examination, etc.  
On the drawings of Class 1 parts, the direction of grain required should be indicated 
clearly in a manner which will ensure that it is brought to the notice of the person 
responsible for deciding the forging technique to be adopted. The agreed material 
properties should also be identified.  
All forgings should be subjected to a suitable crack-detection process at an appropriate 
stage. Additional crack-detection tests should be made after any subsequent heat 
treatment has been completed. Where the level and location of residual stresses in 
forged Engine Critical Parts could be significant in relation to the intended loads, and 
cannot be assessed by experience on similar designs using similar materials and forging 
methods, sufficient physical tests should be carried out to give adequate assurance of the 
level of residual stress likely to be present and of freedom from unacceptable variability.  
When radiographic or ultrasonic examination is called for, this should be continued until 
a satisfactory standard of quality has been established. Subsequent relaxation may be 
introduced in quantity production at the Engine constructor's discretion using a system 
acceptable to the Agency.  
The drawings of each forging should contain information sufficient to identify the 
relevant means of manufacture (e.g. the optimum fabrication method and sequence to 
obtain the desired level of residual stress and the correct grain flow in the finished 
forgings) and quality control either by detailing the necessary information or quoting the 
relevant process control documents.  
The strength of forgings classified as Class 1 or Class 2 parts should be proved to be 
satisfactory by calculation, by test, or comparison with a forging of similar design already 
proved to be satisfactory.  
(b) 
Tests 
Each Class 1 and Class 2 forging should normally incorporate one or more projections 
which, after heat treatment of the forging, can be used as test piece(s) to establish that 
the material qualities of the forging are satisfactory.  
The location(s) and dimensions of the test piece(s) should be decided in consultation with 
the forging manufacturer. The forging manufacturer should certify that the test piece(s) 
achieve the required material properties.  
In cases where the incorporation of test pieces is unpractical, or would adversely affect 
the design, the drawing should indicate that such test pieces are not required. In such 
cases a suitable technique of sample testing should be agreed.  
(c) 
No change of forging constructor or significant change of forging technique should be 
made without the agreement of the Engine constructor and such agreement should 
