 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART B — PISTON ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 67 of 262 
 
CS-E 250  Fuel System 
(a) 
Each fuel specification to be approved, including any additive, and the associated limitations in 
flow, temperature and pressure that ensure proper Engine functioning under all intended 
operating conditions must be declared and substantiated. 
(b) 
Any characteristic of fuel conforming to the specification(s) to be approved which is likely to 
adversely affect Engine functioning or durability, must be identified so that, where necessary, 
Engine or rig testing using appropriate fuel may be conducted. 
(c) 
Filters, strainers or other equivalent means must be provided to protect the fuel system from 
malfunction due to contaminants. These devices must have the capacity to accommodate any 
likely quantity of contaminants, including water, in relation to recommended servicing intervals. 
These means may be provided in the aircraft fuel system; in such case, the characteristics of the 
means shall be specified in the instructions for installation. 
(d) 
It shall not be possible for fuel to drain into the Engine when it is not running, in such quantities 
as to introduce a risk of ‘hydraulicing’ or in any way adversely affect the mechanical reliability 
of the Engine. 
(e) 
Design precautions must be taken against the possibility of errors and inadvertent or 
unauthorised changes in setting of all fuel control adjusting means. 
CS-E 260  Engine Cooling System 
(a) 
The design and construction of the Engine cooling system must ensure adequate cooling in all 
normal operating conditions within the flight envelope. Any reliance upon assumed installed 
conditions shall be declared in the instructions for installation. 
(b) 
For liquid-cooled Engines, it must be shown that the coolant will not boil under any normal 
operating condition within the flight envelope, under all additive concentrations approved for 
use. 
(c) 
For liquid-cooled Engines, to prevent Engine malfunction due to overheating, appropriate 
means or provision for means shall be provided to detect loss of coolant. 
CS-E 270  Lubrication System 
(a) 
It shall not be possible for oil to drain into the Engine when it is not running, in such quantities 
as to introduce a risk of ‘hydraulicing’ or in any way adversely to affect the mechanical reliability 
of the Engine. 
(b) 
The oil flow between the Engine lubrication system and the Propeller control system or other 
system utilising oil supplied by the Engine, shall not prevent oil pressure being maintained 
within approved limits at all operating conditions within the flight envelope, allowance being 
made for deterioration of the Engine. 
(c) 
All parts of the oil system that are not inherently capable of accepting contaminants likely to be 
present in the oil or otherwise introduced into the oil system shall be protected by suitable 
filter(s) or strainer(s). These shall provide a degree of filtration sufficient to preclude damage to 
the Engine and Engine equipment and have adequate capacity to accommodate contaminants 
in relation to the specified servicing intervals. These filters or strainers may be provided as part 
of the aircraft; in such cases, their characteristics will be specified in the instructions for 
installation 
