 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 107 of 262 
 
AMC E 520(c)(1) Strength - Shedding of Blades 
(1) 
In order to reduce the risk of a single blade Failure leading to a multiple blade Failure and 
possible non-containment, particular attention should be paid to such items as blade material, 
blade root fixing and the design of casing joints in vulnerable areas. 
(2) 
In providing containment for compressor and turbine blades account should be taken of the 
possibility that the final trajectory of a failed blade may not be directly in the plane of its 
rotation. This is particularly important when the final containment provisions are external to 
the Engine casing and lie some distance from it (impact points on the aircraft structure of failed 
blades have been experienced at angles up to ± 30° from the point of intersection of the Engine 
centre line and the plane of rotation) or where the Engine casing containment capability is 
reduced adjacent to the plane of rotation of the blades, e.g. by virtue of cut-outs for adjacent 
stator roots, bleed ports, etc. This AMC is not meant to impose an obligation on the Engine 
constructor to provide containment in the direction of the intake and exhaust, provided the 
limits of the angles to which containment is assured are made available to the aircraft 
constructor installing the Engine. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 520(c)(2) Engine Model Validation 
(1) 
Validated data specifically for blade loss analysis typically includes: 
— finite element model, 
— out-of-balance,  
— component Failure,  
— rubs (blade-to-casing, and intershaft),  
— resulting stiffness changes, 
— aerodynamic effects, such as thrust loss and engine surge,  
— variations with time of the rotational speed(s) of the Engine’s main rotating system(s) 
after Failure, and 
— dynamic displacement of interface features between Engine and aircraft. 
(2) 
Manufacturers whose Engines fail the rotor support structure by design during the blade loss 
event should also evaluate the effect of the loss of support on Engine structural response.  
 
In addition, manufacturers should evaluate the effect of the most severe blade Failure which 
would not cause the Failure of the rotor structural support. The effect on the Engine and on the 
loads transmitted to the aircraft should be included in this evaluation. 
(3) 
The model should be validated based on vibration tests and results of the blade loss test 
required for compliance with CS-E 810, giving due allowance for the effects of the test mount 
structure, and any other differences between the test configuration and the aircraft installation 
(e.g. production inlet configuration replaced by test intake configuration). The model should be 
capable of accurately predicting the transient loads from blade release through run-down to 
steady state. In cases where compliance with CS-E 810 is granted by similarity instead of test, 
the model should be correlated to prior experience. Assumptions about the Engine installation 
configuration should be documented in the Manuals required by CS-E 20(d). 
