 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 154 of 262 
 
determination will include the operating limits levels (for the appropriate test sections) 
that are intended to be claimed at the conclusion of the test. Therefore, the severity 
representing the intent of the classic endurance test is the damage that would be accrued 
at these assumed conditions, which may not in reality be concurrently achievable for 
those durations, and this is referred to as the ‘reference severity’ and can be normalised 
to 1 for comparison with the severity of a physical alternate endurance test.  
(c) 
Comparative Severity  
With both a reference severity representing the intent of CS-E 740(c)(1) (with a type-
design Engine) and a method for performing an alternate test in place, the next aspect 
required is a methodology for determining the severity of the alternate test proposal. The 
proposed methodology is dependent on the limiting component, the failure mechanism 
for that component, the operating duration at the CPA conditions, and the Engine 
systems that affect and are affected by the failure mechanism.  
To create a comparison metric, the damage on the critical components can be 
characterised per hour of operation for all potential thrust-/power-setting conditions and 
then used to calculate the actual damage accrued for the proposed cyclic conditions and 
time durations in the alternate endurance test. This will provide the ability to accumulate 
damage consumed for cycles of varying number, duration and thrust/power setting. 
Examples of damage include creep, SPLCF and TMF.  
Methods such as spreadsheet tools may be developed to facilitate implementation of the 
severity comparison during the applicant’s test-planning phase. This will aid in defining 
the aspects of the alternate test that best suit the particular design and intended 
operation of the Engine, while ensuring that the test is adequately severe. The proposed 
test consists of a mix of cycles run at various thrust /power settings for varying durations 
as derived from the CPA to accumulate the expected damage for each test segment.  
(d) 
When severity equivalence is not achieved by testing 
Unexpected factors occurring during testing may lead to a situation where the intended 
severity equivalence is not achieved. As indicated in CS-E 740(c)(4)(iv)(3), the implication 
of this is that the demonstrated EGT will be reduced to the level at which the revised 
reference severity, based on a reduced EGT, meets the achieved severity. This exercise 
therefore involves a back-calculation, via the reference severity process, of the critical 
component temperatures that have been demonstrated for this test level of severity, and 
thus also the demonstrated EGT. 
The severity deficit may also be compensated by additional testing in compliance with 
CS-E 740(c)(4)(vi). 
When a damage mechanism is identified in the CPA (other than creep) that cannot be 
substantiated by the endurance test without unreasonable modifications to test 
schedules, further substantiation may be provided under CS-E 170. 
(6) 
Number of cycles to reach equivalent severity 
It is expected that a cyclic accumulation of approximately 500–750 cycles is needed for the 
equivalent severity demonstration in order to also expose any potential incipient LCF-, SPLCF- 
and TMF-type damage to aerofoil components. A cycle is defined as a rapid acceleration 
(throttle move in one second or shorter) from ground idle to at least maximum rated thrust and 
a rapid deceleration back to ground idle. 
(7) 
Alternate endurance test examples 
