 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 231 of 262 
 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 840 Rotor Integrity 
(See AMC E 840) 
(a) 
For each fan, compressor, and turbine rotor, it must be established by test, analysis, or 
combination thereof, that a rotor which has the most adverse combination of material 
properties and dimensional tolerances allowed by its type design will not burst when it is 
operated in the Engine for five minutes at whichever of the conditions defined in CS-E 840(b) is 
the most critical with respect to the integrity of such a rotor.  
However, where that required condition is determined by either CS-E 840(b)(3) or (b)(4), but 
the associated Failure condition is of a sudden transient nature, such as loss of load, and it 
precludes any further operation of the affected rotor, then the time period of that Failure 
condition is an acceptable duration for showing compliance by means of an Engine test provided 
the required test speeds are achieved. Test rotors which do not have the most adverse 
combination of material properties and dimensional tolerances must comply at appropriately 
adjusted test parameters, e.g. speed, temperature, loads.  
(b) 
When determining the operating conditions applicable to each rotor for compliance with CS-E 
840(a) and (c), each of the following speeds must be evaluated in conjunction with their 
associated temperatures and temperature gradients, throughout the Engine's operating 
envelope:  
(1) 
120% of the maximum permissible rotor speeds associated with any of the ratings except 
OEI ratings of less than 2½-minutes. 
(2) 
115% of the maximum permissible rotor speeds associated with any OEI ratings of less 
than 2½-minutes. 
(3) 
105% of the highest rotor speed that would result from either - 
(i) 
The Failure of the component or system which, in a representative installation of 
the Engine, is the most critical with respect to over-speeding when operating at 
any rating condition except OEI ratings of less than 2½-minutes, or 
(ii) 
The Failure of any component or system in a representative installation of the 
Engine, in combination with any other Failure of a component or system that would 
not normally be detected during a routine pre-flight check or during normal flight 
operation that is the most critical with respect to over-speeding, except as 
provided by CS-E 840(c), when operating at any rating condition except OEI ratings 
of less than 2½-minutes.  
(4) 
100% of the highest rotor speed that would result from the Failure of the component or 
system which, in a representative installation of the Engine, is the most critical with 
respect to over-speeding when operating at any OEI ratings of less than 2½-minutes. 
(c) 
The highest over-speed which will result from a complete loss of load on a turbine rotor, unless 
it can be shown to be Extremely Remote under the provisions of CS-E 850, must be included in 
the over-speeds considered under each of CS-E 840(b)(3)(i), (ii) and (b)(4), irrespective of 
whether it is the result of a Failure within the Engine or external to the Engine.  
Over-speeds resulting from any other single Failure must be considered. Over-speeds resulting 
from multiple Failures must also be considered unless they can be shown to be Extremely 
Remote.  
