 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 120 of 262 
 
(e) 
Evaluations must be made of the effects on vibration characteristics of operating with 
scheduled changes (including allowance for tolerances) to variable vane angles, compressor 
bleeds, accessory loading, the most adverse inlet airflow distortion pattern declared by the 
applicant and the most adverse conditions in the exhaust duct(s). 
(f) 
Except as provided by CS-E 650(g), the vibratory stresses associated with the vibration 
characteristics determined under this CS-E 650, when combined with the appropriate steady 
stresses, must provide suitable margins to the endurance limit of each component, after making 
due allowances for operating conditions and for the permitted variations in properties of the 
associated materials. The suitability of these stress margins must be justified for each 
component. If it is determined that certain operating conditions, or ranges, need to be limited, 
operating and installation limitations must be established. 
(g) 
The effects on vibration characteristics of excitation forces caused by Fault conditions must be 
evaluated and shown not to result in a Hazardous Engine Effect. 
(h) 
Compliance with this CS-E 650 must be substantiated for each specific installation configuration 
that can affect the vibration characteristics of the Engine. If these vibration effects cannot be 
fully investigated during Engine certification, the methods by which they can be evaluated and 
compliance shown must be substantiated and defined in the Engine instructions for installation 
required under CS-E 20(d). 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No. E/4] 
AMC E 650 Vibration Surveys 
(1) 
Definitions. The following are defined for the purpose of this AMC: 
Vibration 
Survey: 
A vibration survey is a test or series of tests which, either alone or in conjunction with 
validated analysis, establishes the vibratory characteristics of Engine components. 
Baseline 
Test: 
A baseline test is one which was performed for the purpose of establishing 
experimentally the dynamic characteristics of Engine components using hardware, 
and/or under conditions, different from those for which approval is currently sought, 
and is an essential requirement for a complementary validated analysis. 
Validated 
Analysis: 
A validated analysis is one with demonstrated predictive capability within a specified 
domain of applicability that encompasses one or more complementary baseline tests. 
Module: 
A module is either a compressor or a turbine which may be single or multi-stage, or a 
gear box. If multi-stage, the rotating elements are mechanically joined and rotate at the 
same speed. The gas path entry and exit points are clearly defined and are frequently 
nodal points in a performance model.  
Note: A single stage or subset of stages isolated from a multi-stage compressor or 
turbine does not constitute a module. 
Physical 
Rotational 
Speed (Nr): 
The physical rotational speed of the rotating elements of a module is the raw 
uncorrected rotational speed. It is rotational speed as normally understood. The 
descriptor ‘physical’ is added in order to differentiate it clearly from corrected speed. 
Minimum 
Rotational 
Speed (Min 
Nr): 
The minimum rotational speed of the rotating elements of a module is the lowest 
steady state rotational speed which can be obtained within the limits imposed by the 
Engine Control System under Fault free conditions throughout the declared flight 
envelope. 
Corrected 
Speed (Nc): 
The corrected speed of the rotating elements of a module is the rotational speed 
normalised to a standard inlet temperature of 15°C in accordance with the formula: 
Nc = Nr/(T inlet/288)𝑒 
