 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART C — PISTON ENGINES, TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 76 of 262 
 
(d) 
Water Spray Conditions. The spray must be arranged to deliver water in a manner 
representative of very heavy rain over the whole frontal area of the Engine including cowling, 
air intakes, etc., but not necessarily the Propeller tips, throughout the full running time. The 
rate of delivery, R, must be assessed from the formula – 
R = 12∙2F litres/min 
where F, in m2, is frontal area of nacelle. 
CS-E 440  Endurance Test 
(a) 
(1) 
The test must be made in the order defined in the appropriate schedule and in suitable 
non-stop parts. In the event of a stop occurring during any part, the part must be 
repeated unless it is agreed to be unnecessary. The complete test may need to be 
repeated if an excessive number of stops occur. 
(2) 
The whole of the endurance test must be run with the oil pressure set to give the declared 
normal operating pressure at Maximum Continuous conditions except that one hour at 
Take-off conditions and nine hours at Maximum Continuous must be run with the 
pressure set to give the declared minimum for completion of the flight at Maximum 
Continuous conditions. The test conditions may be revised, if necessary, to avoid having 
to stop the Engine during particular parts in order to reset the oil pressure. 
(3) 
Where the operating conditions are prescribed in terms of a percentage of Maximum 
Continuous Power, the crankshaft rotational speed, power setting and mixture setting (if 
applicable) mixture setting (if applicable) must be appropriate to the simulation of the 
most severe cruising conditions at this power. Where in such cases the power setting is 
not greater than that for Maximum Best Economy Cruising Power Conditions, the mixture 
setting (if applicable) mixture setting (if applicable) must be compatible with the power 
setting. 
(4) 
Throughout each part of the endurance test, the crankshaft rotational speed and power 
setting must be maintained at, or as near as possible to, the declared maximum values 
appropriate to the Engine operating conditions prescribed. A repeat of the run might be 
required if, for any reason, the observed crankshaft rotational speed and power setting 
deviate by more than ± 1.5% from the declared maximum values. 
(5) 
Propellers. A representative flight Propeller must be used during this test.  
(i) 
Variable Pitch Propellers. The blade setting of the Propeller need not be set 
precisely as for flight conditions. If, however, the blade setting does not allow the 
conditions, detailed in the test schedule agreed for the particular Engine, to be 
achieved, the limitations approved for the Engine will be based on the conditions 
at which the test is run.  
(ii) 
Fixed Pitch Propellers. A sufficient number of Propellers, agreed prior to the 
commencement of the tests, must be used for reasonable approximations to the 
various power ratings to be made. The number normally acceptable is two, for 
instance, one primarily suited to Maximum Best Economy Cruising Power 
Conditions, and the other primarily suited to Maximum Continuous or Take-off 
conditions.  
(iii) 
Limitations not Simultaneously Attainable. If a fixed pitch Propeller is fitted for the 
tests, the Engine must be operated at the maximum power setting or maximum 
