 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 128 of 262 
 
The design characteristics and operating conditions run in the baseline test(s) should be 
shown to be sufficiently similar and inclusive of the domain of applicability for the Engine 
being certified, as defined in this AMC, paragraph (14)(b)(i), (ii) and (iii). 
A test from which the results are used to calibrate an analysis is not in general eligible to 
be considered a baseline test in relation to the validation of that analysis. The same test 
results cannot be used both to calibrate and validate an analysis. 
(b) 
Validated Analysis 
(i) 
Development of the Validated Analysis. 
The analytical model should be validated against one or more baseline tests. 
For each baseline test on which the validation is based, it should be shown that the 
analysis consistently predicts the observed behaviour and vibratory responses of 
the components investigated to an acceptable precision and accuracy. 
Alternatively, it could be shown that predictions reliably overpredict the vibratory 
response.  
The applicant should clearly define the domain of applicability of the analysis, 
comprising the ranges of design characteristics and operating conditions for which 
the analysis will be deemed to be validated. Typical design characteristics and 
operating conditions which may constitute a definition of the domain of 
applicability are as follows: 
—  Engine architecture: 
—  general configuration, for example 2- or 3-shaft design, turboshaft, 
turbofan, open rotor, geared fan; 
—  secondary air system; 
—  number, location and type of bearings, including installation 
(inner/outer race grounded, inter-shaft, damped, etc.), and associated 
support structures. 
—  Module type, for example high or low pressure turbine, axial or radial 
compressor. 
—  Component geometry, for example shrouded or unshrouded blades, aerofoil 
aerodynamic shapes (‘2D’ or ‘3D’). 
—  Structural dynamic characteristics: 
—  natural frequencies, which will influence the resonance speeds and 
aerodynamic stability (flutter); 
—  mode shape similarity, for example a measure of accuracy that is often 
employed is the Modal Assurance Criterion (MAC). Typically, a MAC 
value greater than 0.9 indicates there is close agreement between 
measured and calculated mode shapes. Close matching of mode shapes 
implies that response to the same forcing will be similar; 
—  mechanical damping levels; any difference will be directly reflected in 
the resonant response level or flutter suppression; 
