 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 136 of 262 
 
CS-E 710 Rotor Locking Tests 
(See AMC E 710) 
If continued rotation is prevented by a means to lock the rotor(s), the Engine must be subjected to a 
test that includes 25 locking and unlocking operations of this means under the following conditions: 
the Engine must be shut down from rated Maximum Continuous thrust/power; the means for 
stopping and locking the rotor(s) must be operated as specified in the Engine operating instructions 
while being subjected to the maximum torque that could result from continued flight in this condition; 
and following rotor locking, the rotor(s) must be held stationary under these conditions for five 
minutes for each of the 25 operations. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 710 Rotor locking tests 
(1) 
The applicant has the option to incorporate a rotor-locking device into the type design of the 
Engine in order not to have to comply with CS-E 525. Activation of the device will stop and 
prevent subsequent continued rotation of the Engine rotor(s) during flight when the Engine is 
not operating. The device is part of the Engine type design and is subject to the same test criteria 
as other components on the Engine. In addition, the rotor-locking device should satisfy the 
operational and endurance test specifications identified in CS-E 710 while the Engine is 
subjected to the environmental conditions that result in the maximum rotational torque. The 
assessment of the maximum rotational torque should consider both damaged and undamaged 
Engine rotors.  
(2) 
An Engine that is shut down and that has a rotor locking device but continues to rotate due to 
Failure of the rotor locking device might not satisfy the safety objectives of CS-E 525. Therefore 
the design of the rotor-locking device should be assessed for all possible Failure modes under 
CS-E 510. The effects of an uncommanded or inadvertent activation of the rotor-locking device 
in flight should be considered.  
(3) 
Due to the expected infrequency of using the rotor locking device, it should be designed such 
that under normal Engine operating conditions it will not deteriorate beyond serviceable limits 
to the extent that it fails to perform its intended function when activated during an Engine shut 
down (see also CS-E 510(e)). 
(4) 
The rotor-locking device should be designed in such a manner that it is possible for the flight 
crew to unlock the Engine rotor(s) in order to initiate Engine restart attempts. In the event these 
attempts are unsuccessful, the flight crew should be able to re-lock the Engine rotor(s). 
(5) 
The effects of the temperature of the induction air and external surfaces of the Engine should 
be considered where relevant to the design. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 720 Continuous Ignition 
(a) 
Where approval of an Engine is sought which permits or requires the use of a continuously-
operated ignition system, the specifications of CS-E 720(b) together with either CS-E 720(c) or 
(d) must be met. (See AMC E 720(a)) 
(b) 
Separate tests as agreed by the Agency must be conducted to show that continuous ignition 
systems are safe and effective in the conditions for which their use is permitted or required. 
