 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 176 of 262 
 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
AMC E 750(b) Starting tests 
The «declared drainage period» after a false start referred to in CS-E 750(b) is the minimum period 
necessary to allow surplus fuel to drain from the Engine prior to making a further attempt to start the 
Engine. The period is measured from the time at which the starter is switched off and/or the Engine 
fuel cock is closed during a false start. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 770 Low Temperature Starting Tests 
(See AMC E 770) 
(a) 
The Engine must be shown to be capable of satisfactory starting and acceleration from the 
appropriate minimum temperatures declared by the constructor, and demonstrated as 
indicated in CS-E 770(b) and (c). Unless otherwise agreed, the temperature indicated for service 
use should be the oil temperature. 
(b) 
Minimum Engine Carcass/Oil Temperature for Starting. Evidence must be provided that Engine 
starting with the Engine carcass and oil at the declared minimum temperature using the 
minimum and maximum starting torques declared for service use, is feasible and will not 
damage the Engine. If a non-standard starting procedure is necessary below a certain 
temperature, this must also be established and the relevant details must be quoted in the 
Engine operating instructions, in addition to the standard procedure.  
(c) 
Minimum Oil Temperature for Acceleration. Evidence must be provided that, with the Engine oil 
at the declared minimum temperature for the selection of Take-off Power or thrust, smooth 
acceleration of the Engine is obtained without Engine damage when the power or thrust control 
lever is moved from the ground idle position (minimum test bed idle for rotorcraft Engines) to 
the position appropriate to takeoff in a time not greater than one second. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 770 Low Temperature Starting Tests 
It is normally acceptable in each of the tests of CS-E 770(b) and (c) to allow the Engine to inspire 
uncooled intake air. 
The Constructor may declare a Minimum oil temperature which, with any associated conditions, may 
be used for the purpose of opening up from ground idle for warming up or taxying. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 780 Icing Conditions 
(See AMC E 780) 
(a)(1) It must be established by tests, unless alternative appropriate evidence is available, that the 
Engine will function satisfactorily in flight and on the ground when operated throughout the 
applicable atmospheric icing conditions without unacceptable: 
(i) 
immediate or ultimate reduction of Engine performance, 
