 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 85 of 262 
 
During the aircraft certification, the Engine effect will be considered in the context of the 
whole aircraft. Account will be taken of the actual aircraft component Failure rate.  
Such assumptions should be addressed in compliance with CS-E 30.  
(d) 
Hazardous Engine Effects 
(i) 
The acceptable occurrence rate of Hazardous Engine Effects applies to each 
individual effect. It will be accepted that, in dealing with probabilities of this low 
order of magnitude, absolute proof is not possible and reliance should be placed 
on engineering judgement and previous experience combined with sound design 
and test philosophies. 
The probability target of not greater than 10-7 per Engine flight hour for each 
Hazardous Engine Effect applies to the summation of the probabilities of this 
Hazardous Engine Effect arising from individual Failure modes or combinations of 
Failure modes other than the Failure of Engine Critical Parts (e.g., discs, hubs, 
spacers). For example, the total rate of occurrence of uncontrolled fires, obtained 
by adding up the individual Failure modes and combination of Failure modes 
leading to an uncontrolled fire, should not exceed 10-7 per Engine flight hour. The 
possible dormant period of Failures should be included in the calculations of Failure 
rates.  
If each individual Failure is less than 10-8 per Engine flight hour then summation is 
not required.  
(ii) 
When considering primary Failures of certain single elements such as Engine 
Critical Parts, the numerical Failure rate cannot be sensibly estimated. If the Failure 
of such elements is likely to result in Hazardous Engine Effects, reliance should be 
placed on their meeting the prescribed integrity specifications, such as CS-E 515, 
among others. These specifications are considered to support a design goal that, 
among other goals, primary LCF (Low Cycle Fatigue) Failure of the component 
should be Extremely Remote throughout its operational life. There is no 
specification to include the estimated primary Failure rates of such single elements 
in the summation of Failures for each Hazardous Engine Effect due to the difficulty 
in producing and substantiating such an estimate.  
(iii) 
Non-containment of high-energy debris. 
Uncontained debris covers a large spectrum of energy levels due to the various 
sizes and velocities of parts released in an Engine Failure.  
As a general principle, if a Failure can result in debris being released with an energy 
and trajectory that cause an unsafe condition (refer to AMC1 21.A.3B(b)), such 
debris should be considered as uncontained high-energy debris causing a 
Hazardous Engine Effect. 
Major Rotating Parts 
Due to the extremely high energies involved, the Engine containment structures 
are not required to contain major rotating parts should they fail. Unless 
containment has been demonstrated, the Failure of discs, hubs, impellers, large 
rotating seals, and other similar large rotating components should therefore be 
assumed to result in uncontained high-energy debris, causing a Hazardous Engine 
Effect. For such parts, the Extremely Remote probability objective necessary for 
