 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 95 of 262 
 
(iv) 
Life analysis.  
The life analysis combines the stress, strain, temperature and material data to 
establish the life of the minimum property part. Plasticity- and creep-related 
effects should also be considered. Relevant service experience gained through a 
successful programme of parts retirement or precautionary sampling inspections, 
or both, may be included to adjust the life prediction system.  
The fatigue life prediction system is based upon test data obtained from cyclic 
testing of representative laboratory, subcomponent, or specific component 
specimens and should account for the manufacturing processes that affect low-
cycle fatigue (LCF) capability, including fabrication from production grade material. 
Sufficient testing should be performed to evaluate the effects of elevated 
temperatures and hold times, as well as interaction with other material Failure 
mechanisms such as high-cycle fatigue and creep. The fatigue life prediction 
system should also account for environmental effects, such as vibration and 
corrosion, and cumulative damage.  
When the fatigue life is based on cyclic testing of specific parts, the test results 
should be corrected for inherent fatigue scatter. The factors used to account for 
scatter should be justified. In order to utilise this approach, the test should be 
designed to be representative of the critical Engine conditions in terms of 
temperature and stress at the specific features, e.g. bore, rim or blade attachment 
details, of the part being tested. Appropriate analytical and empirical tools should 
be utilised such that the fatigue life can be adjusted for any differences between 
the Engine conditions and cyclic test. In the event the test is terminated by burst 
or complete Failure, crack initiation for this particular test may be defined using 
the appropriate crack growth calculations and/or fracture surface observations. It 
may also be possible to utilise the number of cycles at the last crack-free inspection 
to define the crack initiation point. This approach requires an inspection technique 
with a high level of detection capability consistent with that used by the Engine 
industry for rotating parts.  
The test data should be reduced statistically in order to express the results in terms 
of minimum LCF capability (1/1000 or alternately -3 sigma). The fatigue life should 
be determined as a minimum life to initiation of a fatigue crack, defined typically 
as a crack length of 0.75mm.  
An alternative way of using the data is to base the fatigue life on an agreed safety 
margin to burst of a minimum strength part. Typically a 2/3 factor has been applied 
to the minimum (1/1000 or alternatively -3 sigma) burst life; however, any factor 
used should be justified for a particular material.  
(v) 
Damage Tolerance.  
 
1.  
General 
Damage Tolerance Assessments should be performed to minimise the potential for 
Failure from material, manufacturing- and service-induced anomalies within the 
Approved Life of the part. Service experience with gas turbine Engines has 
demonstrated that material-, manufacturing- and service-induced anomalies do 
occur which can potentially degrade the structural integrity of Engine Critical Parts. 
Historically, life management methodology has been founded on the assumption 
of the existence of nominal material variations and manufacturing conditions. 
