 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 250 of 262 
 
(6) 
Determination of the IMP 
(i) 
Full Cycle Test 
For a successful full cycle test, the applicant may take credit for the full number of 
cycles and the full number of hours demonstrated during the test when proposing 
an IMP. 
(ii) 
Accelerated Severity Cycle Test 
For a successful accelerated severity cycle test, the applicant may take credit for 
the full number of cycles for those Engine parts for which the test cycle was shown 
to be equal to or more severe than the assumed Engine flight cycle. 
(iii) 
High Thrust Settings during Selected Test Cycle 
The test cycle used (e.g. accelerated severity cycle) may involve a high thrust 
setting operation for durations that significantly exceed those of the Engine flight 
cycle. If so, EASA may accept that the applicant takes credit for interval(s) longer 
than the IMP test length.  
This approach requires caution because: 
— 
some Engine parts will wear as a function of time at load, rather than from 
low cycle fatigue; 
— 
life extrapolation based on material property data alone is imprecise. 
Under these circumstances, the applicant may need to draw supporting evidence 
from other: 
— 
Engine tests, 
— 
component tests, 
— 
sub-assembly tests. 
(7) 
Using the early ETOPS test of AMC 20-6B 
(i) 
General 
The applicant may use a test performed as per AMC 20-6B (Appendix 1, 
Section 2.b), in lieu of a separate IMP test. The use of the early ETOPS test allows 
the applicant to demonstrate compliance with both CS-E 930 and CS-E 1040 
through a single test on one Engine. 
If the applicant uses this method, the following conditions apply. 
(A) 
After completing the full number of test cycles required for an IMP test 
performed as per CS-E 930, the AMC 20-6B test should be interrupted to 
conduct a complete on-wing (or other) inspection.  
 
Please note the following: 
(a) 
The inspection should be acceptable to EASA in order to demonstrate 
compliance with CS-E 930; 
(b) 
An acceptable on-wing inspection should include but is not limited to 
the inspections and tests listed in paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this AMC. 
(B) 
The AMC 20-6B test should be completed in its entirety. This will provide 
further evidence that no undiscovered Engine fault exists during the IMP 
portion of the test. 
(C) 
The application of the general pass/fail criteria defined in paragraph (d)(5) 
of this AMC should demonstrate that the Engine is fully serviceable as per 
the ICA, unless otherwise accepted by EASA. 
(ii) 
On-Wing Inspection 
