 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART C — PISTON ENGINES, TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 79 of 262 
 
AMC E 440(b)(3) Endurance Test - Schedule for Engine Incorporating 
a Turbocharger 
Altitude testing may be simulated provided it is shown that the Engine and turbocharger are being 
subjected to mechanical loads and operation temperatures no less severe than if run at actual altitude 
conditions. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 450  Ignition Tests 
For spark-ignition Engines:  
(a) 
If the design of the ignition system includes redundancy, the reduction in Engine power resulting 
from loss of redundancy shall be established. Tests shall be carried out with the Engine running 
at Take-off power setting at the beginning and at the end of each part of the endurance test of 
CS-E 440.  
(b) 
In no case shall the reduction in power during the test exceed the value declared under CS-E 
240(b)(1).  
CS-E 460  Backfire Tests 
For spark ignition Engines: 
(a) 
After completion of the endurance test of CS-E 440, functioning tests of the Engine shall be 
made to determine if there is any tendency for the Engine to backfire when using the normal 
means of starting and during accelerations effected by any reasonable means.  
(b) 
(1) 
If after the completion of the endurance test, no tendency for the Engine to backfire is 
established, three backfires shall be produced artificially on an Engine of the same type. 
If, however, a tendency to backfire is established, at least twenty backfires shall be 
produced artificially on an Engine of the same type. 
(2) 
If necessary, mechanical mal-adjustment shall be used to cause backfiring. 
Maladjustment may include the mixture setting (if applicable) artificially weakened, non-
standard ignition timing, an inlet tappet adjusted to hold the valve off its seat, or crossed 
ignition leads. 
(3) 
The effect of backfires occurring during starting and during running conditions shall be 
established. 
(4) 
In order to qualify for approval, the Engine shall not suffer serious damage as a result of 
these tests. 
CS-E 470  Contaminated Fuel 
(See AMC E 470) 
Evidence shall be provided that the complete Engine fuel system is capable of operating without 
Engine malfunctioning under any likely quantities of solid contaminant, water and ice present in the 
fuel. If compliance relies upon fuel anti-icing additive(s) or other means incorporated in the aircraft 
fuel system, this shall be declared under CS-E 30 together with a statement of the conditions under 
which use of additive(s) is approved. 
