 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 49 of 262 
 
22  
Pressure Cycling  
AMC E 515(3)(e)  
23  
Fire  
CS-E 130 (note: the Engine Control System should 
also comply with CS-E 130(e))  
 
The related AMC E 130 and AMC E 640 are therefore relevant.  
(d) 
Specialised Equipment Testing  
Table 4  
SUBJECT  
ACCEPTABLE TESTS/PROCEDURE  
24  
Overheat for Engine electronic 
control systems  
AMC 20-1 and AMC 20-3 
 
Overheat  
The purpose of this test or analysis is to verify that the electrical/electronic portions of 
the Engine Control System, when subjected to an overheat condition leading to Failure, 
will not cause a hazardous Engine effect. See also AMC 20-1 and AMC 20-3. If an overheat 
test/analysis is not completed, this should be declared as an installation limitation in the 
Engine instructions for installation and the possibility of an overheat should be addressed 
at aircraft certification.  
(3) 
The provision of a weak link in the drive or the specification of a weak link in the equipment will 
normally be an acceptable means of limiting excessive torque. However for some equipment 
which might be included under CS-E 20(c) (e.g. a high output electrical generator) a weak link 
might not provide an adequate safeguard against damage to the Engine from overheating and 
break-up of the equipment. In such a case other means of disconnect would need to be provided 
or specified in order to permit disengagement of the equipment with the Engine running. 
(4) 
Equipment with high-energy rotors. Compliance with the specifications of CS-E 80(d) can be 
demonstrated by reference to the four containment categories in Table 5 relating to a turbine-
starter having air or gas supplied from an external source and specifies the specifications 
appropriate to each category. Other equipment will be considered on a similar basis, using the 
Fault analysis of the whole system to determine the critical speeds which may result from 
Failures. 
Table 5 
CONTAINMENT CATEGORY DEMONSTRATED  
SECTION SPECIFICATIONS APPLICABLE (see Table 6) 
1. Blade containment only  
a, b, c, d and e  
2. Tri-hub burst within the normal operating 
speed (i.e. at the highest permitted speed 
without Failure of the system but including 
maximum governor over-swing)  
a, b, c (a reduction of the fatigue scatter factor may 
be permissible), d and e  
3. Tri-hub burst at the maximum "no load" 
speed, under all Fault or combination of 
Fault conditions (including those affecting 
fluid supply) other than Extremely Remote 
Fault conditions  
a and b  
4. Engine-driven case if more critical than 3. 
Hub burst containment at the maximum 
driven speed or the maximum burst speed, 
whichever is the lesser  
a only  
 
