 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 232 of 262 
 
(d) 
In addition, for each fan, compressor, and turbine rotor, it must be established by test, analysis, 
or combination thereof, that a rotor which has the most adverse combination of material 
properties and dimensional tolerances allowed by its type design and which is operated in the 
Engine for five minutes at 100% of the most critical speed and temperature conditions resulting 
from any Failure or combination of Failures considered under CS-E 840(b)(3) and (b)(4), will 
meet the acceptance criteria prescribed below in CS-E 840(d)(1) and (d)(2).  
However, where the Failure condition is of a sudden transient nature, such as loss of load, and 
it precludes any further operation of the affected rotor, the time period of that Failure condition 
is an acceptable duration for showing compliance by means of an Engine test.  
Test rotors which do not have the most adverse combination of material properties and 
dimensional tolerances must comply at appropriately adjusted test parameters, e.g. speed, 
temperature, loads.  
(1) 
Growth of the rotor while it is operating at the applicable conditions must not cause the 
Engine to: 
(i) 
Catch fire, 
(ii) 
Release high energy debris through the Engine's casing or result in a hazardous 
Failure of the Engine's casing, 
(iii) 
Generate loads greater than those ultimate loads for which the Engine's mountings 
have been designed in compliance with CS-E 100(b), or  
(iv) 
Lose the capability of being shut down.  
(2) 
After the applicable period of operation, the rotor must not exhibit conditions such as 
cracking or distortion which preclude the safe operation of the Engine during any likely 
continued operation following such an over-speed event in service. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
AMC E 840 Rotor Integrity 
(1) 
Definitions 
The following terms are defined for the purposes of interpreting CS-E 840 and this AMC.  
Rotor: 
Individual stage of a fan, compressor or turbine assembly (some assemblies may 
consist of only one stage). 
Sample rotor: A test article or assembly including, where appropriate, cover plates, spacers, 
etc., that is representative of the standard to be certified and for which the 
material properties and dimensions are known. 
Maximum permissible rotor speed associated with a rating: The maximum of all approved 
speeds, including transients, for the relevant rating. 
(2) 
General 
(a) 
The demonstration of compliance with the safety objectives of CS-E 840(a) and (d) may 
be made separately or be combined, as described in this advisory material. 
(b) 
CS-E 840(a) and (d) allow various means of compliance ("tests, analysis or combination 
thereof) in order to meet the objective identified therein. It is the applicant's 
responsibility to propose the appropriate means of compliance, in accordance with the 
guidelines defined in this AMC. 
