 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 127 of 262 
 
Consideration should also be given to the speed range from zero to minimum rotational speed, 
especially in the case of supercritical shafts. Some predicted potentially damaging transient 
responses may require an aggressive control input to provoke a representative response. 
(12) Instrumentation Incompatibility 
If the dimensions of the components to be tested are incompatible with the necessary 
instrumentation, instrumented Engine tests to substantiate the vibration characteristics of 
these components and the variation of the Endurance Test incremental running as prescribed 
in CS-E 740(g)(1) may be waived wholly or in part if the Agency is satisfied that the total hours 
of operation accumulated on test beds or in flight, under representative conditions, prior to 
certification are sufficient to demonstrate that the vibration stress levels are acceptable. 
(13) Installation Compatibility 
The intent of CS-E 650(h) is to ensure vibratory compatibility between the Engine and each 
intended installation configuration when the Engine is installed and operated in accordance 
with the manufacturer’s approved instructions. The applicant will normally be expected to 
provide sufficient information in the Engine instructions for installation to enable the aircraft 
manufacturer(s) to establish that the installation does not unacceptably affect the Engine’s 
vibration characteristics. In establishing vibratory compatibility between the Engine and the 
installation, consideration should be given to the need to declare operating limitations and 
procedures. Where appropriate, at least the following aspects and installation features should 
be considered: 
— 
 each Propeller approved for use on the Engine; 
— 
 each thrust reverser approved for use on the Engine; 
— 
 installation influences on inlet and exhaust conditions; 
— 
 stiffness and damping of the mount system; and 
— 
 rotor drive systems. 
(14) Modelling and Analysis 
Acceptable analytical methods are based on the complementary concepts of a baseline test and 
validated analysis. The general principle is that a baseline test in conjunction with validated 
analysis is equivalent to a new test. 
(a) 
Baseline test 
A baseline test is usually one of the following: 
(i) 
An Engine or rig test run on the first model of an Engine type during the type 
certification programme. The validated analysis developed on the basis of this test 
may then be used for derivative models that are added to the same type certificate. 
(ii) 
An Engine or rig test run on a previously certified Engine type. The validated 
analysis developed on the basis of this test may then be used for Engines whose 
design characteristics and operating conditions are shown to be sufficiently similar 
to those of the Engine in the baseline test. 
(iii) 
An Engine or rig test specifically run to support the creation of the validated 
analysis. 
