 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 113 of 262 
 
(3) 
Tank filler caps must be designed to provide an oil tight seal and designed so that they 
will not loosen in flight and must be marked with the word ‘oil’. 
(4) 
Provision must be made near each oil pressure connection provided for instrumentation 
so as to limit the loss of fluid in the event of a pipe Failure. 
(b) 
(1) 
All parts of the oil system that are not inherently capable of accepting contaminants likely 
to be present in the oil or otherwise introduced into the oil system must be protected by 
suitable filter(s) or strainer(s). These must provide a degree of filtration sufficient to 
preclude damage to the Engine and Engine equipment and have adequate capacity to 
accommodate contaminants in relation to the specified servicing intervals. 
(2) 
If the most critical main oil filter does not incorporate a by-pass, then it must have 
provision for appropriate indication to the flight crew of impending blockage. 
(c) 
Each filter or strainer that has a by-pass must be constructed and installed so that, if the filter 
or strainer element is completely blocked, the oil will flow through the rest of the system at a 
rate which is within the normal operating range of the system. In addition: 
(1) 
The design of any by-pass must be such that, when the by-pass is in operation, previously 
collected contaminants in the filter or strainer will not enter the Engine oil system 
downstream of the filter or strainer. 
(2) 
Indication of by-pass operation must be provided to permit appropriate maintenance 
action to be initiated. This indication need not be provided if the maintenance 
instructions require the same action to be taken following an impending blockage 
indication of the most critical main oil filter. 
(d) 
The oil system, including the oil tank expansion space, must be adequately vented. All 
atmospheric vents in the oil system must be located, or protected, to minimise ingress of foreign 
matter that could affect satisfactory Engine functioning. Venting must be so arranged that 
condensed water vapour which might freeze and obstruct the line cannot accumulate at any 
point. 
(e) 
(1) 
Except where the tank, its supports and all oil system components external to the Engine 
casing are Fireproof, a means must be provided to shut off the oil supply to the Engine. 
The means must be such that in the event of Failure of any oil system pipe, it will, when 
operated, prevent the discharge of hazardous quantities of oil. 
(2) 
When applicable, operation of the shut-off means must not prevent the utilisation of any 
oil supply intended for the Propeller feathering operation. 
(f) 
(1) 
Each un-pressurised oil tank must not leak when subjected to the maximum operating 
temperature and a differential pressure of 35 kPa. 
(2) 
Each oil tank must have, or have provision for, an oil quantity indicator. 
(3) 
If a Propeller feathering system depends on Engine oil, 
(i) 
There must be means to trap an amount of oil in the tank if the supply becomes 
depleted due to Failure of any part of the lubricating system other than the tank 
itself. The amount of trapped oil must be enough to accomplish one feathering 
operation taking into account deterioration in service, and must be available only 
to the feathering pump. 
(ii) 
Provision must be made to prevent sludge or foreign matter from entering the 
Propeller feathering system. 
