 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 38 of 262 
 
Second OEI power and prevents the Engine from exceeding its limits, specified in the Engine's 
type certificate data sheet and associated with this rating. Because the 30-Second OEI rating 
could already use almost all the available margins in the Engine design, it is considered that 
exceeding the limits associated with this rating would likely result in an Engine Failure, which 
would be unacceptable in a critical flight condition with an already failed Engine. 
The required automatic control of the 30-Second OEI power is intended to avoid the need for 
monitoring Engine parameters such as output shaft torque or power, output shaft speed, gas 
generator speed and gas path temperatures. Such means for automatic control within the 
operating limitations should be effective during normal and abnormal operations.  
(2) 
The means required by CS-E 50(j) should not prevent the Engine from reaching and maintaining 
its rated 30-Second OEI Power. See also paragraph (5) of AMC E 20(f). 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC to CS-E 50(l) Information system security protection 
For Engine Control Systems, AMC 20-42 provides acceptable means, guidance and methods to address 
CS-E 50(l), with special consideration given to any external interfaces of the Engine and the interfaces 
between the aircraft and the Engine, if applicable. In particular, specific cases of intentional 
unauthorised electronic interactions (IUEIs) that could potentially have similar effects on all the Engine 
Control Systems of an aircraft should be taken into account in the security risk assessment, and not 
just any interactions that could only have an adverse effect on a single Engine. 
[Amdt No: E/6] 
CS-E 60  Provision for Instruments 
(See AMC E 60) 
(a) 
Provision must be made for the installation of instrumentation necessary to ensure operation 
in compliance with the Engine operating limitations. Where, in presenting the safety analysis, 
or complying with any other specification, dependence is placed on instrumentation which is 
not otherwise mandatory in the assumed aircraft installation, then this instrumentation must 
be specified in the Engine instructions for installation and declared mandatory in the Engine 
approval documentation. 
(b) 
A list of the instruments necessary for control of the Engine must be provided in the Engine 
instructions for installation. The overall limits of accuracy and transient response required of 
such instruments for control of the operation of the Engine must also be stated so that the 
suitability of the instruments as installed may be assessed. 
(c) 
The sensors together with associated wiring and signal conditioning must be segregated, 
physically and electrically, to the extent necessary to ensure that the probability of a Fault 
propagating from instrumentation and monitoring functions to control functions or vice versa 
is consistent with the Failure effect of the Fault. 
(d) 
Rotorcraft turbine Engines having 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI Power Ratings must (See AMC 
E 60(d)): 
(1) 
Have means, or provision for means, to alert the pilot when the Engine is at the 30-Second 
OEI and the 2-Minute OEI Power levels, when the event begins, and when the time 
interval expires. 
