 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 224 of 262 
 
(a) 
The test facility should be appropriately calibrated to ensure that those controlling 
parameters defined by the analysis of the critical conditions which cannot be accurately 
controlled (e.g. the bird speed, aiming locations) are within an acceptable tolerance. This 
tolerance band should be derived from an analysis of the sensitivity of the critical impact 
parameter (CIP) to variations in the controlling parameters. 
The 'critical impact parameter (CIP)' is defined as a parameter that is used to characterise 
the state of stress, strain, deflection, twist, or other condition which will result in the 
maximum impact damage to the Engine for the prescribed bird ingestion condition.  
The CIP is generally a function of such things as the bird mass, bird velocity, fan/rotor 
speed, impact location, and fan/rotor blade geometry. The state of maximum impact 
damage to the Engine is relative to the ability to meet the criteria of CS-E 800. The CIP for 
most modern turbofan Engines is the fan blade leading edge stress, although other 
features or parameters may be more critical as a function of the operating conditions or 
the basic design. For turboprop and turbojet Engines, a core feature will most likely be 
the critical consideration. Regardless of the Engine design, the most limiting parameter 
should be identified and understood prior to any demonstration, as any unplanned 
variations in controlling test parameters will be evaluated for their effect on the CIP and 
CS-E 800 specifications.  
For turbofan first stage fan blades, increasing the bird velocity or bird mass will increase 
the slice mass, and could shift the CIP from the leading edge stress to the blade root 
stress. For fan blades with part span shrouds, it may be the blade deflection that produces 
shroud shingling and either a thrust loss or a blade fracture that could be the limiting 
event. For unshrouded wide chord fan blades it may be the twist of the blade in the 
dovetail that allows it to impact the trailing blade, resulting in trailing blade damage.  
For certification tests, the CIP variation should not be greater than 10% as a function of 
any deviation in the controlling parameters of the test.  
(b) 
The installation and especially the gun arrangement in some test facilities can induce air 
distortion in the Engine inlet, which can artificially reduce the stability margins of the 
Engine. This should be identified prior to the test. 
(c) 
Power or thrust should be measured by a means which can be shown to be accurate 
throughout the test to enable the power or thrust to be set without undue delay and 
maintained to within ± 3 percentage points of the specified levels. For the test of CS-E 
800(d), if, after the first 2 minutes, operation at the specified power or thrust levels would 
result in a sustained high vibratory condition, the power or thrust may be varied within 
the ± 3% band. Alternative load devices of some test facilities may be unable to control 
the power level tolerance band to the desired level. This should be identified and 
approved prior to the test. Any exceedance of this ± 3% band should be justified in 
relation to the objectives of CS-E 540(b) or CS-E 800(d). 
(d) 
If turboprop or turboshaft Engines are tested using an alternative load device which could 
induce different Engine response characteristics than when the Engine is coupled with a 
propeller or installed in the aircraft, the interface with the test facility and aircraft or 
propeller systems should be monitored during the test and should be used to determine 
how the Engine would respond in a representative installation, and to ensure that the 
Engine would then comply with the specifications. 
(e) 
Input and output data across the Engine interfaces with the aircraft systems should be 
provided by the Engine manufacturer in the instructions for installation regarding the 
