 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 21 of 262 
 
(5) 
The applicant should also provide information on methods by which to assure that Engine 
limiter settings would not prevent the Engine from reaching the 30-Second or 2-Minute OEI 
power which would be automatically available in compliance with CS-E 50(j). These limiter 
settings may include Engine speed, measured gas temperature and fuel flow. Particular 
attention should be given to take-off conditions with a cold-soaked Engine. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
CS-E 25 Instructions for Continued Airworthiness 
(See AMC E 25) 
(a) 
Manual(s) must be established containing instructions for continued airworthiness of the 
Engine. They must be updated as necessary according to changes to existing instructions or 
changes in Engine definition. 
(b) 
The instructions for continued airworthiness must contain a section titled airworthiness 
limitations that is segregated and clearly distinguishable from the rest of the document(s). 
For Engine Critical Parts, this section must also include any mandatory action or limitation for 
inservice maintenance and repair identified in the Service Management Plan required under 
CS-E 515. 
(1) 
For all Engines, the airworthiness limitations section must set forth each mandatory 
replacement time, inspection interval and related procedure required for type 
certification. 
(2) 
For Engines having 30-Second OEI and 2-Minute OEI power ratings, in addition to 
complying with CS-E 25(b)(1), the airworthiness limitations section must also prescribe 
the mandatory postflight inspections and maintenance actions associated with any use 
of either the rated 30-Second OEI or 2-Minute OEI Power. The adequacy of these 
inspections and maintenance actions must be validated and an in-service Engine 
evaluation programme must be established to assure the adequacy of the data of CS-E 
20(f) pertaining to power availability and the instructions for the mandatory post flight 
inspections and maintenance actions.  
The programme must include service Engine tests or equivalent service Engine test 
experience on Engines of similar design and/or evaluations of service usage of the 30-
Second / 2-Minute OEI ratings.  
(c) 
The following information must be considered, as appropriate, for inclusion into the manual(s) 
required by CS-E 25(a).  
(1) 
A detailed description of the Engine and its components, systems and installations. 
(2) 
Handling instructions, including proper procedures for uncrating, de inhibiting, 
acceptance checking, lifting and attaching accessories, with any necessary checks. 
(3) 
Basic control and operating information describing how the Engine components, systems 
and installations operate. Information describing the methods of starting, running, 
testing and stopping the Engine or its components and systems including any special 
procedures and limitations that apply. 
(4) 
Servicing information that covers details regarding servicing points, capacities of tanks, 
reservoirs, types of fluids to be used, pressures applicable to the various systems, 
