 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 235 of 262 
 
(i) 
The sample rotor was initially run at conditions not less severe than those required 
for compliance with CS-E 840(a), and 
(ii) 
CS-E 840(d) can be complied with using an approved analytical modelling method. 
(4) 
Factors To Be Considered When Determining Test Conditions 
(a) 
Temperature 
The rotor temperatures required by CS-E 840(b) are:  
(i) 
For CS-E 840(b)(1) or (b)(2) the material temperatures and temperature gradients 
equal to the most adverse which could be achieved when operating in the Engine 
at the required rating condition. 
(ii) 
For CS-E 840(b)(3) or (b)(4) the material temperatures and temperature gradients 
equal to the most adverse which could be achieved when operating in the Engine 
at the required rating condition immediately prior to the Failure(s). 
These temperatures and temperature gradients should be established by temperature 
surveys on an Engine, or derived by a validated analysis. Adjustments of test speed or 
blade mass or both should be applied to compensate for any deviation from the required 
temperatures and temperature gradients.  
(b) 
Sample Rotor Material Properties 
Material properties of the sample rotor may be determined from attached test rings/bars 
when the correlation of their properties has been established by a validated method 
using coupons obtained from forgings/castings of the type to be approved.  
When attached test rings/bars are not available to determine the material properties of 
the sample rotor, a value for the material properties may be established by assuming that 
the sample rotor possesses material properties equal to known average properties of 
similar rotors from the same manufacturing process lot if it can be shown that the 
assumption is valid within acceptable confidence limits.  
(c) 
Dimensional tolerances 
Analysis of dimensional tolerances should be made to identify the most adverse 
combination with respect to the integrity of the rotors. 
(5) 
Failure Cases 
In order to determine the highest over-speed resulting from a loss of load to be considered 
under CS-E 840(c), it will be necessary to consider, for possible Failure locations, such factors as 
system inertia, available gas energy, whether the rotor is held in plane, over-speed protection 
devices, etc. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
CS-E 850 Compressor, Fan and Turbine Shafts 
(See AMC E 850) 
(a) 
Objectives. 
(1) 
It must be demonstrated that Failures of the shaft systems will not result in Hazardous 
Engine Effects, except as provided in CS-E 850(a)(3).  
