 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 174 of 262 
 
(4) 
For components which are distressed beyond serviceable limits during the test of CS-E 
740(c)(3)(iii), it should be shown that the inspections and mandatory maintenance actions for 
these components, as specified in the Instruction for Continued Airworthiness, are adequate. 
The instructions should include means for proper identification of these component conditions, 
and appropriately defined maintenance actions.  
The component deterioration as it affects performance during the test, and the component 
condition after test, should be determined. The distress seen as a result of the 2-hour test 
should not create a potentially hazardous condition. In addition to visible physical damage, non-
visible damage should be assessed. Such damage may include but not necessarily be limited to 
the effects of creep, stress rupture, metallurgical effects, life usage, etc. This overall evaluation 
should then be considered when defining and justifying the inspections and mandatory 
maintenance actions for instructions for continued airworthiness. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
 
CS-E 745 Engine Acceleration 
(See AMC E 745) 
(a) 
It must be demonstrated, on a test bed, that: 
(1) 
For aeroplane Engines, the power / thrust increases to rated Take-off when the power or 
thrust control lever is moved in not more than one second from the minimum flight idle 
position to the maximum position with the appropriate adverse combination of bleed air 
and power extraction to be permitted in the aeroplane, without over-temperature, surge, 
stall, or other detrimental factors occurring to the Engine. 
(2) 
For rotorcraft Engines, the power increases to rated Take-off when the power demand is 
increased from minimum test bed idle to rated Take-off in not more than one second 
with the appropriate adverse combination of bleed air and power extraction to be 
permitted in the aircraft, without over-temperature, surge, stall, or other detrimental 
factors occurring to the Engine. 
(3) 
For all Engines, an increase can be made from 15% of the rated Take-off Power or thrust, 
to 95% of the rated Take-off Power or thrust in a time not greater than 5 seconds. A 
longer time may be accepted if properly justified. This power or thrust response must 
occur from a stabilised static condition using only the bleed air and accessories loads 
necessary to run the Engine. 
(b) 
The minimum response time to 95% of the rated Take-off Power or thrust as a result of moving 
the power lever of aeroplane Engines in not more than one second, from minimum ground idle 
and from minimum flight idle positions or, for rotorcraft Engines, increasing the power demand 
in not more than one second from the minimum test bed idle condition, starting from a 
stabilised condition, must be measured under the following Engine load conditions. 
(1) 
No bleed air and power extraction for aircraft use. 
(2) 
Maximum allowable bleed air and power extraction for aircraft use. 
(3) 
An intermediate value for bleed air and power extraction representative of that which 
might be used as a maximum for aircraft during approach to a landing. 
