 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 145 of 262 
 
test Engine, as defined by the applicant’s CPA (refer to AMC E 740(c)(4) for further 
considerations of severity assessment). The applicant should therefore decide 
which limiting temperature method will be used during the test. 
The duration and the split between MTO and MCT operation are to be determined 
and justified by the applicant. 
The applicant must determine the mix of cycles and cycle durations that best 
represent the Engine design and operation. A methodology showing how creep 
damage, and other damage, to critical components accumulates is necessary for a 
comparative severity assessment to the intent of the test schedule specified in CS-
E 740(c)(1).  
During this testing phase, rotor physical speeds must be maintained at the highest 
levels feasible with a test vehicle that meets type design as per the specifications 
in CS-E 740(c)(4)(ii), and on average should be held within ± 3 % of the limiting 
speeds. 
(vi) 
Additional Severity Testing 
The need for additional severity testing must be determined and agreed with EASA 
on completion of the scheduled test severity demonstration of CS-E 740(c)(4)(v). 
The additional testing must be completed to the same target EGT conditions 
(necessary if the conditions did not meet those that were assumed in the original 
analysis that was used to establish the test schedule) in order to compensate for 
the missed cumulative severity equivalence. Additional cyclic content may also be 
included, if necessary, to address other damage mechanism demonstration 
identified in the CPA, for which target conditions should be justified. 
(vii) 
Incremental Cruise Power and Thrust 
The following incremental acceleration must be completed 25 times: 2 hours and 
30 minutes, covering the range in 15 approximately equal speed increments from 
ground idle up to but not including MCT thrust or power. 
(viii)  Ancillary Type Certification Data Sheet Limits Demonstration 
The alternate test must take into account specifications CS-E 690(a)(3), CS-E 740(e) 
and (f), and CS-E 750. Minor facilitating modifications may need to be made to run 
the conditions as required. The applicant must propose test sequence intervals 
equivalent to the stages specified in CS-E 690(a)(3) and CS-E 740(e) that are 
acceptable to EASA. 
(d) 
Accelerations and Decelerations 
(1) 
During scheduled accelerations and decelerations in Parts 1 and 5, 
(i) 
For aeroplane Engines, the thrust or power control lever must be moved from one 
extreme position to the other in a time not greater than one second. 
(ii) 
For rotorcraft Engines, the power demand must be increased to Take-off from the 
minimum test bed idle in a time not greater than one second. 
(2) 
Observations 
(i) 
Turbine Engines for Aeroplanes. 
(A) 
Readings of power/ thrust, speed and EGT must be recorded at every 
significant change of Engine conditions. Following accelerations, the over-
