 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 129 of 262 
 
—  mistuning levels; the degree of scatter in frequency between blades 
will strongly influence the vibration amplitudes variability in a bladed 
disc and will have a stabilising influence on flutter. 
—  All structural dynamic characteristics affected by: 
—  materials and construction technique, for example composites, 
anisotropic metals, joining methods 
—  restraints, for example blade or vane attachment design, snubbers or 
dampers, flanges. 
Similarity of the structural dynamic characteristics is frequently demonstrated by 
a combination of comparative analysis and modal testing in a laboratory. 
—  Aeroelastic characteristics: 
—  The Strouhal number (k) or reduced frequency which characterises 
the variation of flow with time, where k = ω.c/U, ω = frequency, c = 
component length in flow direction and U = flow velocity, is relevant for 
flutter. 
—  Sources of vibratory excitations and forcing strength: 
—  upstream or downstream rotors, stators or struts, for example 
numbers off, aerodynamic style, axial gapping; 
—  gas stream characteristics, inlet or flow path asymmetry, main gas 
path and secondary flows; 
—  power or thrust levels, air density, Mach number and Reynolds 
number that can affect both flutter and forced response amplitudes, 
—  combustion system 
—  mechanical sources, for example gearbox and rotor out-of-balance. 
—  Operating conditions: 
—  rotational speeds, temperatures and gas pressures experienced by 
the subject components throughout the declared flight envelope. 
The validated analysis and its domain of applicability should be acceptable to the 
Agency. 
(ii) 
Use of the Validated Analysis 
Similarity of the Engine, module or component(s) to be certified with previously 
tested and certified designs should be justified. For each new Engine certification 
programme, for which the use of validated analysis is proposed, the applicant 
should show that the design characteristics and operating conditions of the Engine 
fall within the domain of applicability of the analysis previously established and 
accepted by the Agency. 
The demonstration of compliance will be considered to be the combination of the 
baseline test(s) used to create the validated analysis, and the analysis performed 
on the Engine for which approval is currently sought. 
Examples where validated analysis may be used include but are not limited to the 
following: 
