 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART F — TURBINE ENGINES - 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND OPERATIONAL 
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 256 of 262 
 
(e)  
In showing compliance with CS-E 1030(b)(7), justification of the proposed dispatch 
intervals should be based on a reliability analysis. The reliability analysis is typically the 
result of a model of the EECS, like a Markov Model or a Fault Tree Analysis, and is based 
largely on electronic component databases for failure rates.  
A Summary Report of the Engine Control System time-limited-dispatch analysis should be 
prepared and made available to the installer. This report should contain the list of the non-
dispatchable and time limited dispatch configurations.  
A means to monitor the in-service LOTC/LOPC rate should be established. This should compare 
service experience of component Failures with the modes, effects, rates, and exposure times 
predicted in the TLD analysis. The data collected by this means may be used to support 
applications for changing dispatch intervals and may be incorporated into the system required 
by Part 21A.3. 
Entry level and mature level EECSs are differentiated to consider factors not included in a 
reliability analysis.  
A mature level system is an EECS that has achieved a stable in-service LOTC/LOPC rate that 
meets the required LOTC/LOPC rate for the intended application and is consistent with the 
analysis on which TLD approval is based. For engines installed in large transport aeroplanes this 
might not be achieved until 250,000 Engine flight hours in-service operation have been 
accumulated. 
An EECS is classified as an entry-level system if it is not a mature level system.  
The applicant may request alleviation from entry level classification if it has sufficiently similar 
systems operating in the field that have accumulated enough flight hours to establish stable 
behaviour over time. Such applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  
A reliability analysis is typically based on electronic component databases. These databases 
consider components to be mature and, hence, only random Failures are considered. Failures 
due to design, manufacturing, quality and operating environment of the EECS, as well as 
maintenance errors, are not included.  
Since such failures due to design, manufacturing, quality and operating environment of the 
EECS, as well as maintenance errors, are not covered by the reliability analysis, and because 
these Faults tend to be exposed and corrected only as in-service time is accumulated, the EECS 
is classified as an entry-level system and appropriate limitations are applied as shown in Table 
2. Thus, more conservative criteria for dispatch intervals for entry-level systems are applied 
compared to mature level systems, even though the reliability analysis may support dispatch 
for a longer dispatch interval for entry-level systems. 
The TLD analysis report should include a tabulation of the various proposed dispatch 
configurations and provide: (1) the expected frequency of occurrence of the Faults leading to 
those dispatchable configurations; and (2) the LOTC/LOPC rate of the system when operating in 
those configurations.  
The report should tabulate the chosen category described in paragraph (6) for each Fault 
covered in the analysis. The report should also show that the exposure time chosen for the short 
and long time Fault categories allows the EECS to continue to meet its reliability requirements.  
(6) 
Dispatch Categories 
The dispatch intervals determined in compliance with CS-E 1030(b)(7) and (c) are usually 
grouped into dispatch categories. 
