 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 103 of 262 
 
— Engine development experience;  
— lessons learned from other engine projects;  
— any in-service events.  
(h) 
Influencing Parts  
Engine Critical Parts are part of a complex system and other parts of the Engine can have 
an impact on the Engine Critical Parts and their life capability. Therefore, the Engineering 
Plan needs to address these parts, and particularly changes to them. Examples of 
influencing parts include a turbine blade, a mating part, and a static part that impacts on 
the environment (temperatures, pressures, etc.) around the Engine Critical Part. 
Examples of changes to influencing parts include a blade with a different weight, centre 
of gravity, or root coating; a mating part made of a material that has a different coefficient 
of thermal expansion; and a static part where changes in geometry or material modify 
the thermal and/or mechanical response of the component and could, as a result, affect 
the environment around the Engine Critical Part.  
(4) 
Means for Defining a Manufacturing Plan 
(a) 
Introduction 
The Manufacturing Plan is a portion of the overall integrity process intended to ensure 
the life capability of the part. The Engineering Plan includes assumptions about how 
Engine Critical Parts are designed, manufactured, operated and maintained: each can 
have an impact on the part life capability. Therefore, it is essential to ensure that the 
Attributes required by the Engineering Plan are maintained.  
(b) 
Elements of a Manufacturing Plan 
The part specific Manufacturing Plan should consider the Attributes of the part delivered 
by the manufacturing process from raw material to finished part and should highlight all 
sensitive parameters identified as being significant with regard to part life which should 
not be changed without proper verification. Such parameters may include, but may not 
be limited to: material controls, including any zoned areas for special properties, 
manufacturing method specifications, manufacturing method order of application, 
inspection method and sensitivity, and any special part rough machining methods or 
finishing method(s), especially any methods intended to improve fatigue capability or 
minimise induced anomalies.  
(c) 
Development and Verification of the Manufacturing Plan 
The Manufacturing Plan should be reviewed and verified by the following key Engineering 
and Manufacturing skills:  
— Engineering (Design & Lifing)  
— Material Engineering  
— Non-Destructive Inspection  
— Quality Assurance  
— Manufacturing Engineering (Development & Production)  
Hence, this same skill mix should evaluate and approve process validation and the 
procedures for manufacturing change control and non-conformance disposition to 
