 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART C — PISTON ENGINES, TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 72 of 262 
 
(g) 
If moderate vibration is found to exist, which is not sufficiently serious to warrant the 
introduction of modifications but needs proof of its effect on the Engine, a vibration penalty 
test must be substituted for those stages of the endurance test as are considered most suitable 
and must include sufficient duration under the most adverse vibration condition to establish 
the ability of the Engine to resist fatigue Failure. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 340  Vibration Tests 
(1) 
Calculations during design of the engine 
During the design stage the applicant should make calculations to determine the vibration 
characteristics of the coupled crankshaft torsional and Propeller flexural vibrations for the 
Engine and Propeller system. For this purpose, 'admittance' lines for the Propeller should be 
provided by the Propeller manufacturer.  
The scope of these calculations should be wide enough to reveal any serious criticals within the 
operating speed range of the Engine and their relative magnitudes. These calculations form an 
essential part of the subsequent analysis and interpretation of the tests required by CS-E 340. 
(2) 
Maximum Acceptable Stress 
When considering the maximum stress in the Engine crankshaft and Propeller system the 
vibration stress at the particular Engine speed and power conditions should be added to the 
mean stress at the same speed.  
In the absence of adequate evidence to the contrary, a maximum stress shown to be safe for 
continuous use should be regarded as the maximum safe stress for Engine crankshafts and 
Propeller shafts.  
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 350  Calibration Tests 
(See AMC E 350) 
(a) 
The power characteristics of the Engine must be established, under all normal operating 
conditions within the declared flight envelope, by means of sufficient calibration testing. 
(b) 
In order to identify the Engine power changes that may occur during the endurance test of CS-
E 440, sea level power calibration curves of the test engine shall be established at the beginning 
and the end of the endurance test 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 350  Calibration Tests 
(1) 
In complying with CS-E 350(a), the following calibration testing should normally be considered 
adequate. 
(a) 
The sea level power characteristics of the Engine should be established against rotational 
speed and power setting. The following curves should be generated, each consisting of 
sufficient points for each characteristic to ensure the accuracy of the interpolation. 
Normally, at least five points in each curve will be required: 
