 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 142 of 262 
 
Part 5: One minute at 50 percent of Take-off Power.  
Part 6: Thirty seconds at 30-Second OEI Power.  
Part 7: Two minutes at 2-Minute OEI Power.  
Part 8: One minute at flight idle.  
(4) 
Alternate Endurance Testing – Turbofan Engine 
The following alternate endurance testing may be used by the applicant for the purpose 
of testing turbofan Engines instead of the abovementioned test schedule as per CS-
E 740(c)(1). In particular, this may be suitable when running this schedule would require 
substantial modifications of the Engine such that it would deviate excessively from the 
type-design definition. The alternate endurance test must, however, provide a severity 
at least equivalent to the intent of the endurance test prescribed by CS-E 740(c)(1) (here 
designated as the ‘classic’ endurance test). 
(i) 
Alternate Test Definition 
The test must be defined considering the following elements:  
(A) 
Test Vehicle Definition;  
(B) 
Critical Point Analysis (CPA); 
(C) 
Engine Operating Limits Demonstration (type certification data sheet (TCDS) 
physical speeds and temperatures);  
(D) 
Test Severity Demonstration over extended operating periods; 
(E) 
Additional Severity Testing; 
(F) 
Incremental Cruise Power and Thrust;  
(G) 
Ancillary TCDS Limits Demonstration.  
The compliance document(s) addressing the proposed test schedule and full assessment 
of the above elements must be agreed with EASA in advance of test commencement. 
(ii) 
Test Vehicle Definition 
The test must be performed using a test vehicle that adequately conforms to the 
Engine type design. 
Exceptions could include external test equipment, controls systems settings, and 
other modifications required to achieve the test conditions detailed below; 
however, Engine hardware modifications should be minimised to preserve the 
Engine type-design hardware configuration and Engine cycle match. Hardware 
modifications may be temporarily applied to achieve specific test conditions (e.g. 
for the physical core speed operating limits test segment). 
(iii) 
Critical Point Analysis (CPA) 
Using a thermodynamic Engine model representative of a production Engine 
(accounting for new and deteriorated Engine conditions) in conjunction with the 
aeroplane flight envelope, the applicant will identify the critical points (rotor 
physical speeds, temperatures, altitude, etc.) representing the most severe 
operation and the extent of exposure to those levels.  
For the purpose of operating limits demonstrations, the CPA must establish the 
extent of exposure to the operating limits levels and close proximity to those levels. 
