 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 27 of 262 
 
 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
CS-E 30  Assumptions 
(See AMC E 30) 
(a) 
In the course of establishing compliance with CS-E certain assumptions have to be made 
concerning the conditions that may be imposed on the Engine when it is eventually installed in 
the aircraft. In order that the validity of the conditions assumed in the Engine certification may 
be assessed for any particular installation, prior to Engine certification, the details of the 
assumptions made must be submitted. These assumptions must be included in the Engine 
instructions for installation required under CS-E 20(d). 
(b) 
Where an Engine system relies on components which are not part of the Engine type design, 
the interface conditions and reliability specifications for those components upon which the 
Engine certification is based must be specified in the Engine instructions for installation directly 
or by reference to appropriate documentation. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
AMC E 30  Assumptions 
The details required by CS-E 30 concerning assumptions should normally include information on, at 
least, the items listed in Table 1. 
TABLE 1  
Specifications/References  
Assumptions  
ALL ENGINES 
Interfaces  
CS-E 20  
Applicable aircraft specifications.  
Flight and ground loads.  
Aircraft components and equipment not included in the Engine definition. 
Attitudes.  
Negative g duration.  
Physical and functional interfaces with the aircraft Mount flexibility. 
Engine Control System 
CS-E 50  
Type of aircraft installation.  
Conditions on the interfaces with the aircraft or the Propeller 
Environmental Conditions.  
Instrumentation 
CS-E 60  
Instrumentation required and statement of accuracy. For engines with 30-
Second / 2-Minute OEI ratings, conditions imposed on the usage recording 
system. 
Strength  
CS-E 100  
CS-E 520, CS-E 640  
Ultimate and limit loads;  
– out-of-balance loads, 
– operating envelope.  
Fire precautions 
CS-E 130 
Reliance placed on the installation of fire-zone partitioning for any part of the 
mounting structure or Engine attachment points that are not Fireproof. 
Electrical Bonding 
CS-E 135 
Reliance placed on aircraft provisions for electrical bonding of the Engine.  
