 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 115 of 262 
 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
CS-E 600 Tests - General 
(a) 
All tests must be made with air intakes conforming to an acceptable design that is as 
representative of the powerplant intakes as is practicable. 
(b) 
All tests must be made with acceptable representative jet pipes and propelling nozzles, except 
as permitted under CS-E 740(f)(4)(i). The approval of other jet pipes and / or propelling nozzles 
for particular installations will be considered individually as necessary. 
(c) 
Unless otherwise required for specific tests, any optional air bleed must be closed during all 
relevant tests. 
(d) 
In cases where dirt accumulates within the Engine due to the test house environment, it will be 
acceptable to clean the Engine internally at agreed intervals during the endurance test of CS-E 
740 by an agreed method which does not involve stripping any part of the Engine or necessitate 
the removal of the Engine from the test bed. 
(e) 
Engines for Rotorcraft. All tests must normally be made with the Engine mounted in the attitude 
in which it will be installed. (See AMC E 600(e)). 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 600(e) Test - General 
The applicant should justify any difference between the Engine attitude during the tests and the 
Engine attitude in the intended rotorcraft installations. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 620 Performance Correction 
(See AMC E 620) 
(a) 
All performance results must be corrected to the following assumed conditions of atmospheric 
pressure and temperature at mean sea level: 
(1) 
Pressure. 1013.25 hPa 
(2) 
Temperature. 288 K 
(3) 
Atmosphere. Dry air (if correction is significant). 
(b) 
Correction of Humidity. No correction for humidity of the air supply may be made to the power 
obtained. Humidity corrections appropriate to high atmospheric temperatures, at altitudes up 
to 4 500 m must be established, however, for each type of turbine Engine, for use in the 
assessment of aircraft performance in these conditions. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
