 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 102 of 262 
 
should be made of these additional loads and their effect examined. If the effect 
of these loads is small, it may be possible to simulate them by an addition to the 
test pressure differential. However, if the loads are of significant magnitude or 
cannot adequately be represented by a pressure increment, the test should be 
carried out with such loads acting in addition to the pressure loads.  
The part should be tested at the temperature associated with the most critical 
stress case or alternatively the test pressure differential may be increased to 
simulate the loss of relevant properties as a result of temperature.  
Any fatigue scatter factors used should be justified.  
During pressure testing, the methods of mounting and restraint by the test facility 
or test equipment of any critical section should be such as to simulate the actual 
conditions occurring on the Engine. 
(iii) 
Analytical Modelling Methods  
An analytical modelling method may be used to determine the adequate fatigue 
life, provided that the modelling method is validated by testing or successful field 
experience with parts of similar design.  
(f) 
Establishment of the Approved Life - Other Parts 
It is possible that the Safety Analysis required by CS-E 510 may identify Engine Critical 
Parts other than rotating parts or static pressure loaded parts. In such instances, a 
methodology for determining the Approved Life will need to be agreed with the 
Authority, using the general principles for rotating and static pressure loaded parts as a 
guideline. 
(g) 
Maintaining the Approved Life 
At certification, the Approved Life is based on predictions of the Engine operation, 
material behaviour, environment, etc., which all can be expected to influence the life at 
which the part should be withdrawn from service to avoid Hazardous Engine Effects.  
After certification, it may be necessary to check the accuracy of such predictions, 
recognising that many aspects, for example, the usage of the Engine and its operating 
environment, may change during its operational life, especially with a change of 
ownership. It is important to use any service feedback to confirm that any assumptions 
made in the Engineering Plan remain valid, or are modified if required. The Engineering 
Plan should describe not only the basis of the Approved Life, but also those actions 
subsequent to certification, which will be necessary to ensure that the Approved Life is 
appropriate throughout the operational life of the Engine.  
A regular review of the assumptions made when establishing the Approved Life may be 
required, depending on the conservative nature of the assumptions made when 
determining the Approved Life. The Engineering Plan should detail when such reviews 
should occur and what information will be required in order to complete the review.  
Aspects which may be considered include, but need not be limited to: 
— the frequency of Approved Life reviews;  
— detailed inspection of service run parts, including time-expired parts;  
— review of flight plans;  
— findings during maintenance;  
