 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART F — TURBINE ENGINES - 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND OPERATIONAL 
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 254 of 262 
 
The objective of TLD is to allow dispatch with certain EECS Faults present but without them 
compromising the prescribed fleet-wide average LOTC/LOPC rates and Hazardous Engine 
Effects rates. 
TLD methodology is one way of managing dispatch with EECS Faults. Faults in systems or 
equipment other than EECS or EECS Faults other than loss of redundancy are typically addressed 
through the Master Minimum Equipment List (MMEL). Figure 2 illustrates the various ways of 
managing dispatch with engine faults. 
TLD operations have been applied to EECS equipped engines used in multi-engine Aircraft 
applications, particularly those engines used in large transport Aeroplanes (certified under CS-
25). The TLD requirements and limitations for those multi-engine Aircraft discussed in this 
advisory material should be acceptable in single engine Aircraft applications. However, the 
criteria used to establish acceptable TLD operations may need to be reviewed for those other 
applications. This assessment of control system reliability and availability requirements for 
single engine Aircraft applies to both piston and turbine engines.  
(2) 
Definitions 
Definitions may be found in CS-Definitions, CS-E 15 and AMC 20-3. For the purpose of this AMC 
E 1030 the following additional definitions apply: 
“Average fault exposure time” means the average period of time between the Fault occurring 
and that Fault being repaired. It applies when the periodic inspection/repair maintenance 
approach is used. In this case the time of occurrence of the Fault may not be known. One-half 
of the periodic inspection interval will be used in the TLD analysis since the Fault could have 
occurred at any time during the interval. This assumes that the Fault rate of occurrence is 
constant throughout the interval. If the Fault rate is not constant throughout the interval, the 
average exposure time should be adjusted accordingly.  
“Dispatch interval” means the maximum time interval approved for dispatch with Faults 
present in the system before corrective maintenance is required.  
“MEL maintenance approach” means that the presence of a detected TLD approved fault in the 
EECS will be annunciated in the cockpit and that in the presence of the fault indication dispatch 
will be allowed by including the indication in the MMEL. The operator can then keep the 
indication listed within their approved MEL and disposition the indication as they do any other 
MEL items. 
“Inspection/Repair maintenance approach” means that a periodic inspection and repair 
strategy has been approved to manage FADEC system faults. Within this approach, the presence 
of a detected TLD approved fault in the EECS need not be annunciated to the flight crew. The 
FADEC system must be interrogated by maintenance for the presence of faults during periodic 
inspections, and the faults found must be repaired within a specified time period or interval, so 
that the average exposure time of a fault in a particular category does not exceed the maximum 
average allowed exposure time for that category. 
(3) 
Referenced Documents 
ARP 5107 revB, Time-Limited-Dispatch (TLD) Analysis for Electronic Engine Control Systems, 
dated November 2006. 
SAE World Headquarters, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001, USA.  
(4) 
Time Limited Dispatch Analysis 
