 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 149 of 262 
 
(A) 
The temperature rise under service conditions is the result of a local increase 
in the oil temperature at the temperature sensing position (e.g. as may occur 
on reducing power at the top of the climb when fuel is used as the oil cooling 
medium), 
(B) 
There is no significant increase in the maximum local temperature of either 
the Engine components or the oil in any Engine Critical Part, and 
(C) 
There is no undue deterioration of the oil in such circumstances and no 
adverse effect on any system using the oil as a working fluid (e.g. Propeller 
control). 
(g) 
Incremental Periods. 
(1) 
If a significant vibration response is found to exist on relevant components in the course 
of establishing compliance with CS-E 650 at any condition within the operating range of 
the Engine (not prohibited under CS-E 650(f)), not less than 10 hours, but not exceeding 
50 %, of the incremental periods of Part 4 in CS-E 740(c)(1), (2) or (3) of the endurance 
test, or CS-E 740(c)(4)(vii) of the alternate endurance test, if applicable, must be run with 
the rotational speed varied continuously over the range for which vibrations of the largest 
amplitude were disclosed by the vibration survey; if there are other ranges of rotational 
speed within the operational range of the Engine where approximately the same 
amplitude exists, a further 10 hours must be run in the same way for each such range. 
The speed variation must be effected by automatic means using a method acceptable to 
the Agency. (See AMC E 740(g)(1)) 
(2) 
In the case of Engines operating at constant speed, the thrust and/or power may be 
varied in lieu of speed, in Part 4 of the endurance test. 
(3) 
In the case of free power-turbine Engines, the normal operating range of power-turbine 
speed must be covered. This may be run concurrently with the range of gas generator 
speed. 
(4) 
In the case of a free power-turbine Engine for Rotorcraft, 10 minutes of Part 4 in each 
stage of the endurance test must be run at the Maximum Power-turbine Speed for 
Autorotation with the gas generator producing the most critical conditions associated 
with this flight configuration. 
(h) 
Engine Performance Target after Test Completion. 
After completion of the endurance test, the Engine must be able to provide the rated thrust or 
power levels without exceeding operating limitations. 
(i) 
Inspection Checks 
(1) 
After completion of the test, the Engine must be subject to a strip inspection, and the 
dimensions measured in accordance with CS-E 740(b)(5) must be re-measured and 
recorded. The condition of the Engine must be satisfactory for safe continued operation. 
Separately functioning Engine components and equipment must be functionally checked 
prior to strip to ensure that any changes in function or settings are satisfactory for normal 
operation. 
(2) 
Engines with 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI Power ratings must be subjected to a full strip 
inspection after completing the additional endurance test of CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii). (See 
AMC E 740(i)(2)) 
