 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 94 of 262 
 
 
The major elements of the analysis are:  
(i) 
Operating conditions. 
For the purposes of certification, an appropriate flight profile or combination of 
profiles and the expected range of ambient conditions and operational variations 
will determine the predicted service environment. The Engine Flight Cycle should 
include the various flight segments such as start, idle, takeoff, climb, cruise, 
approach, landing, reverse and shutdown. The assumed hold times at the various 
flight segments should correspond to the assumed limiting installation variables 
(aircraft weight, climb rates, etc.). For Rotorcraft turbine Engines, the 
representative usage of the 30-minute Power rating should be considered in the 
Engine Flight Cycle when establishing the Approved Life of each Engine critical part. 
A maximum severity cycle that is known to be conservative may be used as an 
alternative.  
The corresponding rotor speeds, internal pressures, and temperatures during each 
flight segment should be adjusted to account for Engine performance variation due 
to production tolerances and installation trim procedures, as well as Engine 
deterioration that can be expected between heavy maintenance intervals. The 
range of ambient temperature and take-off altitude conditions encountered during 
the Engines’ service life as well as the impact of cold and hot Engine starts should 
also be considered.  
The appropriateness of the Engine Flight Cycle should be validated and maintained 
over the lifetime of the design. The extent of the validation is dependent upon the 
approach taken in the development of the Engine Flight Cycle. For example, a 
conservative flight cycle where all the variables are placed at the most life-
damaging value would require minimum validation, whereas a flight cycle which 
more accurately represents some portion of the actual flight profile but is 
inherently less conservative, would require more extensive validation. Further 
refinements may be applied when significant field operation data is gathered.  
(ii) 
Thermal analysis.  
Analytical and empirical engineering processes are applied to determine the 
Engine internal environment (temperatures, pressures, flows, etc.) from which the 
component steady-state and transient temperatures are determined for the 
Engine Flight Cycle. The Engine internal environment and the component 
temperatures should be correlated and verified experimentally during Engine 
development testing.  
(iii) 
Stress analysis.  
The stress determination is used to identify the limiting locations such as bores, 
holes, changes in section, welds or attachment slots, and the limiting loading 
conditions. Analytical and empirical engineering processes are applied to 
determine the stress distribution for each part. The analyses evaluate the effects 
on part stress of Engine speed, pressure, part temperature and thermal gradients 
at many discrete Engine cycle conditions. From this, the part’s cyclic stress history 
is constructed. All methods of stress analysis should be validated by experimental 
measurements.  
