 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 153 of 262 
 
In addition, the alternate endurance test should demonstrate equal or more damage 
accumulation in the other damage mechanisms.  
(4) 
Elements to be Used in a Severity Comparison 
To demonstrate that the proposed alternate test is adequately severe (i.e. commensurate with 
the intent of the classic endurance test), a method of severity comparison with the classic 
endurance test intent is required. In addition to creep as the primary damage mechanism, other 
damage mechanisms should be assessed at the operating conditions determined by the CPA.  
The following elements should be considered in a severity comparison: 
(a) 
Declared operating limits,  
(b) 
Temperature-related and physical-speed-related damage mechanisms (creep, sustained 
peak low cycle fatigue (SPLCF), thermomechanical fatigue (TMF), etc.),  
(c) 
Cyclic content, 
(d) 
Transients,  
(e) 
Oil system demonstrations,  
(f) 
Fuel system demonstrations,  
(g) 
Start/stop.  
This list is not exhaustive, and the applicant should evaluate its proposed type design for all 
significant elements and damage mechanisms.  
(5) 
Application of a Severity Comparison  
The comparative methodology and damage mechanism(s) are dependent on the applicant’s 
CPA, and on the details of the Engine application.  
(a) 
Comparative Severity Analysis  
The primary approach is to use creep damage to critical gas path components as a 
comparative arbiter to the original intent of the classic endurance test. Stress rupture and 
creep damage were the prevalent failure mechanisms when the classic endurance test 
was originally adapted for turbine Engines.  
An approach based on creep damage as a comparative means to assess severity for an 
alternate test does not mean that the alternate test must be defined only to identify 
creep issues, or that it will not adequately assess other potential failure mechanisms. 
Rather, it is a means of comparing any alternate test’s severity to that of the original 
intent of the classic endurance test for the creep mechanism. Within the applicant’s 
severity assessment and comparison, it is expected that any other relevant damage 
mechanisms will be identified and an Engine-specific comparison of the classic with the 
alternate endurance test will be provided to demonstrate that the proposed test will 
adequately expose the Engine to the relevant failure and/or deterioration mechanisms 
to meet the test intent. Paragraph 8 of this AMC provides additional guidance for severity 
assessment. 
(b) 
Reference Severity 
The reference severity is a theoretically determined value based on the material 
temperatures of the critical component(s) identified using the CPA and on the time at 
elevated temperature and rotor speed to which the component(s) will be subjected when 
the Engine is tested in accordance with CS-E 740(c)(1). The rotor speeds assumed for this 
