 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 241 of 262 
 
not be run non-stop, but the duration of the individual periods of running at this condition 
must be not less than 3 minutes.  
(c) 
Engines for Aeroplanes. Refrigerant Injection Used to Restore ISA Take-off and/or 2½-Minute 
OEI Performance at Higher Ambient Temperature. The following variations to the tests 
prescribed in this subpart E must be made:  
(1) 
Calibration Tests. (See CS-E 730). Add a calibration with refrigerant injection to 
demonstrate that the predicted power/thrust will be achieved at the maximum declared 
air intake temperature whilst running within the appropriate operating limitations. This 
additional calibration may be made on a separate Engine if desired.  
(2) 
Endurance Test (See CS-E 740(c)). Run all the Take-off periods of Part 1 of any 10 of the 
stages with refrigerant injection to achieve a mean refrigerant flow rate of at least 50% 
of the maximum, whilst maintaining at least minimum declared power/thrust output and 
maximum declared turbine entry temperature. If a 2½-Minute OEI Rating is also sought 
then all the Take-off and 2½-Minute OEI periods of Part 1 in stages 3 to 12 must be run 
as above.  
(3) 
Accelerations (See CS-E 740(c) and (d)). All the appropriate accelerations of Part 1 of each 
of the 10 required stages must be made with refrigerant injection selected.  
(4) 
Idle conditions used for power or thrust response (See CS-E 745). The idle conditions 
appropriate to the use of maximum refrigerant injection flow, as well as without, must 
be established. 
(5) 
Over-speed (See CS-E 830). Run either without refrigerant injection at the ambient air 
intake temperature or with refrigerant injection with the air intake temperature raised 
to the highest sea-level temperature at which refrigerant is to be used, depending on 
which involves the more severe running conditions. If the test is run with refrigerant 
injection, the 15-minute period need not be run non-stop, but the duration of the 
individual periods of running at this condition must be not less than 3 minutes. The test 
may be run, if desired as part of the endurance test. Alternatively, test evidence from an 
Engine of similar design may be provided.  
CS-E 890 Thrust Reverser Tests 
(See AMC E 890) 
(a) 
Applicability. CS-E 890 is applicable to thrust reversers intended to be installed on turbine 
Engines.  
(b) 
The thrust reverser must be fitted to the Engine for the whole of the endurance test of CS-E 740 
and a representative control system must be used.  
(c) 
Thrust reversers intended for ground use only. The following specific tests must be performed 
as part of the tests of CS-E 740:  
(1) 
150 cycles from an Engine rotational speed in the forward thrust range not greater than 
that which will be achieved in a representative aeroplane under typical landing conditions 
to the declared maximum reverse thrust conditions, sustaining the maximum reverse 
thrust conditions during each cycle for the period for which approval at these conditions 
is sought. 
(2) 
25 cycles from the Engine rotational speed for rated Take-off conditions to the declared 
maximum reverse thrust conditions. 
