 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 125 of 262 
 
effects should be completed to show that the flutter does not result in a Hazardous 
Engine Effect. The investigation may include testing as required under paragraph (10) 
below for a significant response. 
(b) 
In all cases, the test procedure needs to recognise that some systems’ susceptibilities to 
flutter will not be revealed during tests if the relevant operating conditions are not 
sustained long enough for the flutter to develop. 
(c) 
As flutter is a phenomenon which can be sensitive to small variations in those factors 
which could influence the response of the system, due consideration should also be given 
to possible variations between the nominal and extreme values of, for example, tip 
clearances, mechanical damping, operating lines and bleed flows. Experience has also 
shown that there are differences in susceptibility to flutter from one blade set to another 
and that ‘tuned’ blade sets might be more sensitive. 
(d) 
If tests will be conducted at sea level only, the applicant should propose a procedure 
acceptable to the Agency to account for altitude effects. For certain Engine modules, 
especially fans and compressors, it is expected that this will be achieved by testing 
throughout the range of corrected speed that the module will encounter in service, in 
which case the requirements of CS-E 650(b) and (c) with regard to physical rotational 
speed should be considered to apply also to corrected speed. The provisions of paragraph 
(4)(b) of this AMC are also applicable. 
(e) 
For some turbines, the propensity to flutter is not increased at maximum corrected 
speed, and other methods of demonstrating the absence of damaging flutter throughout 
the declared flight envelope may be more appropriate. It is important to ensure that the 
maximum stage inlet pressure at each physical speed is achieved, or compensation is 
provided. The strength of aerodynamic forcing on many turbine blades is predominantly 
driven by the total pressure levels, and the highest pressures are expected at the highest 
mechanical speed. Where turbines operate in aerodynamically choked conditions and the 
mass flow through the turbine is dictated by the fixed geometry of the blading, the 
corrected speed is essentially constant. Higher corrected speed (at an aerodynamic work 
level) will lower the blading Mach numbers (Mn) and, conversely, a lower corrected 
speed will increase blading Mn. This means that, in such cases, running up to 100 % of 
maximum mechanical speed will cover the worst case (highest forcing) condition. 
(f) 
In general, the methods used to verify the absence of damaging levels of flutter 
throughout the declared flight envelope should include consideration of applicable 
combinations of the following: 
(i) 
the ranges of physical and corrected rotational speeds for each rotor module; 
(ii) 
the simultaneous occurrence of maximum fan or compressor inlet air total 
temperature and maximum corrected rotational speed (i.e. maximum reduced 
velocity); 
(iii) 
the range of fan or compressor operating lines within the flight envelope; 
(iv) 
the most adverse of other fan or compressor inlet air conditions encountered 
within the flight envelope (e.g. applicable combinations of total air pressure, 
density, temperature, and inlet distortion); and 
(v) 
the hardware standard, the intake conditions and margins to account for Engine 
deterioration. 
(9) 
Variations in Material Properties and Natural Frequencies 
