 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 227 of 262 
 
(iii) 
by other evidence acceptable to the Agency. 
(b) 
Tests for containment are detailed in (2) and those for running following blade Failure are 
detailed in (3), but where the most critical blade from the point of view of blade 
containment is the same as that for the subsequent out-of-balance running, it is 
acceptable to combine the tests of (2) and (3).  
(c)  
In order to comply with CS-E 810(a), the threat represented by any blade Failure must be 
addressed. Therefore, the applicant should assess other possible blade Failure conditions 
(e.g. blade released at a different angular position, partial blade Failure, or release at 
speeds below the maximum to be approved) to ensure that the conditions of paragraphs 
(2)(c)(i) and (2)(c)(ii) below would be satisfied for any blade Failure. It is recognised that 
limitations on prediction capabilities exist, particularly in relation to the prediction of 
axially released debris. Engineering judgement based on available test and service 
experience may be used to evaluate these threats.  
(d)  
When assessing the potential Hazardous Engine Effect resulting from other damage 
before Engine shutdown, the applicant should consider the long-term effects (e.g. 
unbalance loads) of blade Failures which would not be detected by the declared 
instrumentation, such as vibration detectors. If reliance is placed on Engine shutdown by 
the flight crew to prevent propagation to Hazardous Engine Effect, then appropriate 
means should be provided to ensure flight crew action and adequate instructions are 
required in the Engine manuals required by CS-E 20(d). 
(2) 
Containment 
(a) 
General. Containment tests should be made, either - 
(i) 
on the complete Engine; or 
(ii) 
on the individual stage concerned with the adjacent stators, where - 
(A) 
the actual strength of casing under the anticipated operation conditions (e.g. 
temperature and pressure) is taken into account; and 
(B) 
adequate evidence is available such as to indicate that the aircraft would not 
be endangered by the effect of the blade Failure on subsequent blade rows. 
(b) 
Test Conditions. Separate tests on each compressor and turbine stage adjudged to be 
most critical from the point of view of blade containment (account being taken of blade 
size, material, radius of rotation, Rotational Speed and the relative strength of the 
adjacent Engine casing under operating temperature and pressure conditions) should be 
carried out in accordance with the conditions of (i) and (ii). 
NOTE: Where the Engine design is such that potentially Engine Critical Parts overlie the 
compressor or turbine casing (e.g. bypass Engines, or reverse flow Engines where the 
combustion systems may be outside the rotors), consideration should also be given to 
possible hazardous internal damage caused by blades penetrating the rotor casings, even 
though they are contained within the external geometry of the Engine. Consideration 
should also be given to AMC E 520(c)(1) paragraph (2).  
(i) 
Number of blades to be detached. One blade should be released at the top of the 
retention member. 
(A)  
For composite fan blades only, the fan blade may be released at the inner 
annulus flow path line, provided that:  
