 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 106 of 262 
 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
[Amdt No: E/7] 
CS-E 520 Strength 
(a) 
The major rotating components of the Engine must have adequate strength to withstand both 
the thermal and dynamic conditions of normal operation and any excessive thermal or dynamic 
conditions that may result from abnormal speeds, abnormal temperatures or abnormal 
vibration loads. In assessing the abnormal conditions to be considered, account must be taken 
of the Failure analysis prescribed in CS-E 510. (See AMC E 520(a)) 
(b) 
Fixed structure in close proximity to rotating parts must be so arranged that any rub caused 
either by - 
(1) 
Thermal expansion or contraction of parts to the extremes of movement within the 
operating envelope of the Engine, or 
(2) 
Movement resulting from likely Fault conditions of either the fixed or rotating parts, will 
occur in a manner not likely to result in a Hazardous Engine Effect. As an alternative, a 
device giving warning of such unintended movement must be provided. 
(c) 
(1)  
The design of the Engine must be such that debris resulting from the shedding of 
compressor or turbine blades, either singly or in likely combinations, will be radially 
contained (see AMC E 520(c)(1)). 
(2) 
Validated data (from analysis or test or both) must be established and provided for the 
purpose of enabling each aircraft constructor to ascertain the forces that could be 
imposed on the aircraft structure and systems as a consequence of out-of-balance 
running and during any continued rotation with rotor unbalance after shutdown of the 
Engine following the occurrence of blade Failure as demonstrated in compliance with CS-
E 810. If the Failure of a shaft, bearing or bearing support or bird strike event, as required 
under CS-E 800, result in higher forces being developed, such Failures must also be 
considered, except for bird strike in relation to continued out-of-balance running. (see 
AMC E 520 (c)(2)). 
(d) 
Design consideration must be given to avoiding the risk of major rupture of Engine casings 
(particularly those which are subjected to high pressure loads) in the event of a local Failure in 
the casing or damage to the casing arising, for example, from a torching flame following a 
combustion system Failure. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No.: E/2] 
[Amdt. No.: E/7] 
AMC E 520(a) Strength - High Cycle Fatigue 
In order to minimise the adverse consequences of Failures due to unpredicted high cycle fatigue it is 
recommended that, normally, the relative fatigue strengths of the blade/disc are graded such that 
they lie in the ascending order: blade form, blade root, disc blade attachment, disc rim. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
