 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART C — PISTON ENGINES, TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 77 of 262 
 
crankshaft rotational speed appropriate to the conditions of the tests, whichever 
limitation is reached first. 
(6) 
The Engine must be subjected to an agreed extent of pre-assembly inspection, and a 
record must be made of the dimensions liable to change by reason of wear, distortion 
and creep. A record must also be made of the calibrations and settings of separately 
functioning Engine components and equipment (e.g. the control system, pumps, 
actuators, valves). 
(b) 
Schedules 
(1) 
Schedule for Unsupercharged Engines and Engines Incorporating Gear-driven, Single-
speed Superchargers 
Part 1 
A 30-hour run consisting of alternate 5 minute periods at Take-off Power and 
speed and Maximum Best Economy Cruising Power or Maximum 
Recommended Cruising Power conditions.  
Part 2 
A 20-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 1½ hours at Maximum 
Continuous Power and speed and ½ hour at 75% Maximum Continuous Power 
and 91% Maximum Continuous speed.  
Part 3 
A 20-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 1½ hours at Maximum 
Continuous Power and speed and ½ hour at 70% Maximum Continuous Power 
and 89% Maximum Continuous speed.  
Part 4 
A 20-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 1½ hours at Maximum 
Continuous Power and speed and ½ hour at 65% Maximum Continuous Power 
and 87% Maximum Continuous speed.  
Part 5 
A 20-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 1½ hours at Maximum 
Continuous Power and speed and ½ hour at 60% Maximum Continuous Power 
and 84.5% Maximum Continuous speed.  
Part 6 
A 20-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 1½ hours at Maximum 
Continuous Power and speed and ½ hour at 50% Maximum Continuous Power 
and 79.5% Maximum Continuous speed.  
Part 7 
A 20-hour run consisting of alternate 2½ hour periods at Maximum Continuous 
Power and speed and Maximum Best Economy Cruising Power or Maximum 
Recommended Cruising Power conditions.  
(2) 
Schedule for Engine Incorporating a Gear-driven Two-speed Supercharger. 
Part 1 
A 30-hour run in the lower gear ratio consisting of alternate 5 minute periods 
at Take-off Power and speed and Maximum Best Economy Cruising Power or 
Maximum Recommended Cruising Power Conditions.  
If a Take-off Power rating is desired in the higher gear ratio, 15 hours of the 30-
hour run must be made in the higher gear ratio in alternate periods of 5 minutes 
at the power obtainable with the Take-off Critical Altitude power setting and 
Take-off speed and 5 minutes at 70% high ratio Maximum Continuous Power 
and 89% high ratio Maximum Continuous speed.  
Part 2  
A 15-hour run in the lower gear ratio consisting of alternate periods of one hour 
at Maximum Continuous Power and speed and ½ hour at 75% Maximum 
Continuous Power and 91% Maximum Continuous speed.  
