 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 186 of 262 
 
When a non-altitude test is used to simulate in-flight icing conditions, any 
differences in Engine operating conditions, LWC, ice accretion, and 
sheddingbetween the altitude condition to be simulated and the test conditions, 
which could affect the Engine behaviour in icing conditions, should be taken into 
account when establishing the test points to be carried out. This could involve the 
modification of Engine operating conditions and other test conditions of this 
paragraph in order to adequately simulate all icing threats and effects which are 
relevant for the test conditions..  
The icing threats which should be considered include but are not limited to: 
— 
vibration; 
— 
surge; 
— 
flameout; 
— 
core blockage; and 
— 
ice impact energy and location following shedding. 
For instance, if more ice would accrete at a critical location under altitude 
conditions, then the test conditions (e.g. LWC) may need to be adjusted. Similarly, 
if the rotor speed in flight would be higher, this should be considered to ensure 
that the Blade impact energy is at least as severe under test conditions. 
Furthermore, altitude effects on Engine performance, including surge and 
flameout margins, should be taken into account, either in the tested conditions, or 
through post-test assessment. 
Because different Engine modules react differently to variations in altitude 
conditions (e.g. low pressure shaft speeds v high pressure shaft speeds), the 
various icing threats are also impacted differently by varying altitude conditions. 
Consequently, this may require running multiple test points to simulate all 
relevant/applicable icing threats associated with a single atmospheric condition. 
In that context, a single atmospheric condition could either be: 
— 
a single standard test point as listed in Table 1 above, or  
— 
a single test point identified by a CPA (refer to AMC E 780 (2.1)). 
Effects which should be considered and corrected for include but are not limited 
to: 
— 
Engine shaft speeds; 
— 
By-pass ratio; 
— 
ice concentration and dilution effects at Engine and core inlet (i.e. scoop 
factor); 
— 
mass flow (total and core Engine); and 
— 
temperature effects. 
The effects of density, hardness, and adhesion strength of the ice as it sheds should 
be assessed in realistic flight conditions. For example, in realistic flight conditions, 
the ice shed cycle for rotating surfaces, such as fan blades, is strongly influenced 
by the rotor speed and the adhesive strength of the ice to the surface. The adhesive 
strength of ice generally increases with decreasing surface temperature. The ice 
