 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART C — PISTON ENGINES, TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 75 of 262 
 
limitations. Each acceleration with a supercharger in high gear shall be made from ambient 
conditions. 
CS-E 400  Over-speed Tests 
(a) 
The tests of (1) and (2) shall be completed during or at the end of the endurance test of CS-E 
440.  
(1) 
All Engines, except two-speed supercharged Engines. 20 runs, each of 30 seconds 
duration, at the declared Maximum Engine Over-speed or at a speed 5% in excess of the 
declared maximum Engine rotational speed, whichever is greater. The power setting for 
these runs shall not be less than that declared for the Maximum Continuous rating. 
(2) 
Two-speed Supercharged Engines. 20 runs, each of 30 seconds duration, at the declared 
Maximum Engine Over-speed or at a speed 5% in excess of the declared maximum Engine 
rotational speed, whichever is the greater, 10 with the supercharger in low gear and 10 
with the supercharger in high gear. The power setting for these runs shall not be less than 
that declared for the Maximum Continuous rating. 
(b) 
A further test consisting of a total of 10-minutes run in stages of not less than one minute shall 
be made at the declared Maximum Over-speed or at a speed not less than 5% in excess of the 
declared maximum Engine rotational speed, whichever is greater. The power for this test shall 
be not greater than 30% Take-off Power. The oil inlet temperature shall be within 30°C of the 
declared maximum temperature for take-off. This test may be run on a dynamometer. 
CS-E 430  Water Spray Tests 
(a) 
Installation Conditions. With the Engine suitably cowled or shielded to be fully representative 
of an installed Engine, a water spray must be applied throughout three periods of running.  
(b) 
Running Conditions. Each period of running must comprise –  
— Start  
— Warm up  
— Ignition checks  
— 5 minutes at Take-off Power  
— 15 minutes at Maximum Continuous Power  
— 15 minutes at Maximum Best Economy Cruising Power  
— 25 minutes at 60% of Maximum Continuous Power at 75% of Maximum Best Economy 
Cruising crankshaft rotational speed  
— Ignition check and accelerations.  
Two-speed supercharged Engines must run the whole test in low gear.  
(c) 
Interval Conditions. An interval of 24 hours must be allowed after each period of running. No 
adjustment or artificial drying-off must be undertaken from the commencement of the test and, 
when not running, the Engine must be completely covered in a manner which will fully promote 
moisture penetration. At the conclusion of the third cycle of running and standing, the Engine 
must be subjected to 5 minutes running at Take-off Power without the water spray.  
