 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 99 of 262 
 
Note: An individual Failure is considered to be a Failure occurring anywhere in the 
engine as a result of a damage mechanism intended to be addressed by the 
damage tolerance assessment and it is not related to the Failure of an individual 
component. Therefore, the individual Failure probability objective at the 
component level is a portion of the probability objective defined in CS-E 510 (a)(3) 
for an individual Failure occurring anywhere in the Engine as a result of a given 
cause. 
The applicant should demonstrate that adequate processes are in place in order to 
validate the assumptions utilised in the analysis. These assumptions should be 
validated throughout the life of the certified product. 
Any departure from the original assumptions will require the applicant to repeat 
the risk assessment, and communicate the results to the Agency. 
If the revised risk assessment shows that the safety objectives of CS-E 510(a)(3) can 
no longer be met, then corrective action must be implemented in accordance with 
point 21.A.3 of Part 21. 
The Agency recognises that industry standards on suitable anomaly size and 
frequency distributions, and analysis techniques used in the Damage Tolerance 
Assessment process are not available in every case. In such cases, compliance 
should be based on such considerations as the design margins applied, application 
of damage tolerance design concepts, historical experience, crack-growth rate 
comparisons to successful experience, fatigue testing of simulated damage, etc.  
b. Deterministic approach applied to surface damage tolerance. 
If the required input data (anomaly size and frequency distributions, etc.) is not 
available to fully implement the probabilistic approach for manufacturing- and 
service-induced anomaly types, the applicant may use the following deterministic 
approach, which ensures a minimum level of damage tolerance. 
An analysis should be provided that demonstrates that the surface fracture 
mechanics life for all Critical Parts exceeds 3 000 representative flight cycles, or 50 
% of the Approved Life of the part, whichever is less. 
This analysis should take account of the following assumptions: 
— 
Analyses performed using Linear Elastic Fracture Mechanics; 
— 
Initial anomaly size is one of the following: 
• 
0.762 mm × 0.381 mm (0.030 inches × 0.015 inches) for an assumed 
(semi-circular) surface anomaly; 
• 
0.381 mm × 0.381 mm (0.015 inches × 0.015 inches) for an assumed 
(quarter-circular) corner anomaly; 
— 
Any additional assumptions used in this analysis (i.e. material properties, 
reference engine cycle, operating environment and its effect on the stress 
cycle, use of compressive residual stresses, use of inelastic stresses, etc.); 
— 
Anomalies should be treated as sharp propagating cracks from the first 
stress cycle, placed in the most unfavourable orientation and location. 
5. 
Establishment of a Service Damage Monitoring Process. 
