 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 223 of 262 
 
— analysis based on component testing;  
— dynamic simulation verified by test; or  
— experience with similar designs.  
(iv)  
Engine operation  
— A momentary, 3 seconds maximum, power or thrust decrease below the 
required value of each segment, or when setting power between 
segments, is acceptable.  
— A power or thrust loss of greater than 3 seconds duration below the 
required value of each segment, or when setting power between 
segments, is considered to be a sustained power loss.  
(v)  
Run-on sequence requirements  
— The total test duration may exceed 20 minutes, due to the time used for 
accelerations and decelerations.  
— If a percentage of the maximum rated Take-off Power or Thrust is specified, 
the rotor speed to attain the specified Power setting will vary with the test day 
conditions.  
— The Power settings are a percentage of the maximum rated Take-off Power or 
Thrust, and not a percentage of the actual test day pre-ingestion Power or 
Thrust specified in CS-E 800(e)(1) or (4).  
(vi)  
Core ingestion prediction analyses  
— Some Engine configurations may include features that reject all bird material 
from the core intake at the take-off and climb conditions specified in CS-E 
800(d) and (e)(1). Such Engines would be:  
— exempt from the recommended climb ingestion criteria;  
— subject only to the approach core ingestion test; and  
— required to demonstrate 100 % bird rejection capability by analysis or 
similarity.  
— Any analyses used to predict core ingestion will need to be validated using data 
that may be derived from:  
— rig testing;  
— Engine testing; or  
— field experience.  
— If the standard CS-E 800(d) MFB core demonstration results in any amount of 
bird material being found in the core, including a single feather or tissue 
fluorescence under ultraviolet light illumination, then:  
— the prediction of zero core ingestion under the climb conditions of CS-E 
800(e)(1) will be considered to be invalid; and  
— the core ingestion capability in the climb condition should be 
demonstrated.  
(2) 
Test facility related conditions 
