 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 233 of 262 
 
(c) 
Any analysis approach allowed under CS-E 840 should be defined and validated before 
usage. 
(d) 
The applicant should submit to the Agency the appropriate analysis to determine which 
of the conditions in CS-E 840(b)(1) through (b)(4) is the most critical for each individual 
rotor stage with respect to the specifications of CS-E 840(a). A similar analysis should be 
submitted with respect to the specifications of CS-E 840(d). 
Where the peak over-speed is limited by deliberate blade shedding:  
(i) 
The factors of CS-E 840(b)(3) and (b)(4) nevertheless apply to a fully bladed rotor 
at the shedding speed, and 
(ii) 
The analysis to determine the most critical speed with respect to rotor integrity 
should consider blade shedding throughout the flight envelope. Consideration 
should be given to the blade Failure speed taking into account the effects of 
tolerances, temperature and material property variations of the blades together 
with the most adverse combination of the effects of tolerances and material 
properties on the integrity of the rotor. Consequently the most critical speed with 
respect to rotor integrity might not be coincident with the highest achievable blade 
shedding speed. 
(e) 
While considering the most adverse combination of dimensional tolerances and material 
properties, as required in CS-E 840(a) and (d), the applicant should also consider the 
tolerances and material properties of blades, over-speed limiter etc. adversely 
influencing stress levels in the rotor. The material properties assumptions, including 
material anomalies, used for lifing calculations should also be considered for the 
purposes of this specification. 
(f) 
Failure conditions which are of a sudden transient nature (reference CS-E 840(a) & (d)) 
are typified by loss of load Failures, i.e. characterised by high rates of acceleration and 
deceleration with no dwell period at the highest over-speed attained. 
The applicant should also examine all possible Failure conditions to determine if any case 
exists which would result in a dwell period at speeds close to that of the transient short 
duration Failure condition. If such a case exists, the applicant should determine which 
condition is the most critical with respect to rotor integrity.  
(g) 
The appropriate percentage speed factor of CS-E 840(b) should be applied after making 
the necessary speed adjustments for temperatures, material properties, tolerance 
effects, etc. The necessary speed adjustments for temperature and material properties 
will normally be established on the basis of appropriate ratios of material properties. 
(h) 
The consequences of rotor growth sufficient to cause significant contact or displacement 
between Engine components should be assessed to determine that the specifications of 
CS-E 840(d)(1) can be met. 
(i) 
When determining compliance with the specifications of CS-E 840(d)(2) the applicant 
should consider whether or not the rotor would exhibit any condition that would be likely 
to prevent the safe operation of the Engine for a period of time that could occur in service 
following any Failure or combination of Failures considered under CS-E 840(b)(3) or (b)(4). 
This period of time might be equal to that required to recognise the event and shut the 
Engine down, or to that required for continued safe flight and landing. The length of time 
might also depend upon the operational instructions for an over-speed event. 
