 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 64 of 262 
 
(3) 
200 reverse pitch change cycles (braking or manoeuvring, whichever is greater), and 
sustaining the appropriate maximum declared Engine conditions for 1 minute during each 
cycle. In this case, the periods of the endurance test covering the range of cruising 
conditions may be reduced by a total of 3 hours. 
(4) 
1 reverse (manoeuvring) pitch change cycle, sustaining the appropriate maximum 
declared Engine conditions for 5 minutes. 
(c) 
Additional tests with Reversible Pitch Propellers on Piston Engines - 
(1) 
Where approval of an Engine for use with Reversible Pitch Propellers is sought, the 
appropriate tests of Certification Specifications for Propellers must be run on Engines 
sufficiently representative of the type design. 
(2) 
After completion of these tests, those parts of the Engines which may be affected by the 
reversed thrust or air flow, must be removed and examined and must be shown to have 
suffered no adverse effects. 
(d) 
Any other tests considered necessary to demonstrate that the Propeller-Engine combination 
will function satisfactorily. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 180  Propeller Functioning Tests 
For Propeller approval the remaining tests of CS-P may be conducted on another Engine of the same 
type providing the same Propeller without further adjustment is used. 
For Piston Engines, auxiliary cooling may be used during tests of CS-E 180(b)(3) and (4). 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 190  Engines for Aerobatic Use 
Where approval is sought for an Engine intended for use in an aeroplane for which the Flight Manual 
will approve aerobatics or semi-aerobatic flight, the ability of the Engine to continue to function safely 
in conditions of inverted flight or for intentional negative g conditions for specified periods must be 
demonstrated. Where the evidence is considered to be acceptable, and such tests as are necessary 
have been completed satisfactorily, the Engine Type certificate data sheet will be endorsed by means 
of a note, e.g. ‘the Engine may be used under sustained negative g or inverted flight conditions for 
continuous periods not exceeding... seconds’. 
