 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 124 of 262 
 
as a dependency on corrected speed, which enables such phenomena to be investigated by 
means of sea-level testing, provided that the entire required corrected speed range can be 
achieved. In general, a high corrected speed implies that the airflow over the blading has a high 
Mach number, which is associated with higher aerodynamic forcing and lower aerodynamic 
stability. 
(6) 
Fault Conditions 
A number of common Fault conditions can have the effect of introducing additional excitation 
sources or changes to those existing under Fault-free conditions. Any change in vibration 
response should be evaluated and shown not to result in a Hazardous Engine Effect. 
CS-E 650(g) applies to those Fault conditions that would cause abnormal vibrations that are 
difficult to identify in a timely manner so that appropriate mitigating action can be taken. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of CS-E 60 and CS-E 510 with regard to instrumentation, certain 
low-level vibrations caused by Fault conditions may not be recognised as associated with an 
Engine Fault and may not prompt an immediate response. Subsequently, these Faults may 
escalate to Hazardous Engine Effects. For example, the loss of an airfoil tip would be likely to 
result in a change in vibration due to the increased out-of-balance. Even if indicated by the 
means required under CS-E 60 and CS-E 510, this vibration might not be immediately recognised 
as abnormal or may not prompt immediate action, and could cause further damage. Other 
Faults include incorrectly scheduled compressor variables, stator vanes blockages or 
enlargement, and blockages of fuel nozzles. These Faults could produce local airflow distortions 
and changes in the airflow or pressure distributions that in turn may affect component vibratory 
response and characteristics. To address these Fault conditions, the applicant may use prior 
experience with Faults that occurred on other similar Engines. Successful experience is such 
that, after exposure to a Fault condition, the Engine was able either to continue in safe 
operation or to be shut down without creating a Hazardous Engine Effect. Applicants may also 
use field experience or other means to show that certain Fault conditions are Extremely Remote 
because of specific Engine configurations, design features or operating conditions. The 
requirements of CS-E 650(g) apply to the same components that are considered under CS-E 
650(a). When the effects of these Fault conditions extend to the rest of the Engine, they must 
be addressed under the requirements of CS-E 100 Strength and/or CS E 520 Strength (for 
example, the out-of-balance effects on the Engine structural components). 
(7) 
Inlet Airflow Distortion 
Fan and compressor vibration can be sensitive to inlet airflow distortion, and conditions 
consistent with the most adverse pattern declared by the applicant should be taken into 
account. Inlet airflow distortion may be associated with the air intake, crosswinds, or other 
operating and aircraft installation conditions. When an Engine test is performed, whether in a 
test cell or on a flight test bed, the inlet distortion may be achieved by various means, such as 
external crosswind devices, inlet distortion plates or suppression screens. 
(8) 
Flutter 
Testing required to demonstrate satisfactory vibratory clearance from flutter boundaries may 
be accomplished by rig and/or Engine sea-level or altitude test, subject to the following 
considerations: 
(a) 
The presence of flutter may be acceptable in some circumstances, for example in a speed 
range encountered only briefly or infrequently, or where the flutter amplitude is limited 
to a safe level. However, the resulting vibration stresses must always satisfy the 
requirements of CS-E 650(f). A thorough investigation of the flutter response and its 
