 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART F — TURBINE ENGINES - 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND OPERATIONAL 
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 253 of 262 
 
(2) 
It should be noted that only the type design at time of engine certification will be assessed 
against CS-34 and that the applicable emissions standard for a production engine is dependent 
on its date of manufacture. Any further change to the type design should assess the effect on 
its engine emissions characteristics and its compliance with the specifications of CS-34, to 
enable demonstration of compliance for each individual engine when required. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 1030 Time Limited Dispatch 
(See AMC E 1030) 
(a) 
If approval is sought for dispatch with Faults present in an Electronic Engine Control System 
(EECS), a time limited dispatch (TLD) analysis of the EECS must be carried out to determine the 
dispatch and maintenance intervals. 
(b) 
For each dispatchable configuration it must be shown by test or analysis that: 
(1) 
The Engine remains capable of meeting all CS-E specifications for: 
(i) 
The operability aspects covered by CS-E 500(a), CS-E 750 and CS-E 745; 
(ii) 
Re-light in flight covered by CS-E 910. 
(2) 
The ability to control the Engine within limits is maintained; 
(3) 
Protection is maintained against Hazardous Engine Effects, if provided solely by the EECS 
and shown to be necessary by the safety analyses required under CS-E 510 and CS-E 50;  
(4) 
A means is maintained to provide necessary signals to identify EECS Faults; 
(5) 
A further single Failure in the EECS will not produce a Hazardous Engine Effect; 
(6) 
The Engine continues to meet its certification specifications for external threats; 
(7) 
The proposed dispatch interval is justified.  
(c) 
The time-weighted-average of the Full-up Configuration and all allowable dispatch 
configurations with Faults, must meet the Loss of Thrust Control / Loss of Power Control 
(LOTC/LOPC) rate for the intended application(s). 
(d) 
The periods of time allowed prior to rectification of Faults must be documented in the 
appropriate manual(s). 
(e) 
Provision must be made for any no-dispatch configuration to be indicated to the flight crew. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
AMC E 1030 Time limited dispatch 
(1) 
Guidance 
This AMC provides guidance for obtaining type design approval of engines with EECS in a 
degraded condition with respect to redundancy when these systems are to be dispatched with 
Faults present for limited time intervals before maintenance actions are required. This is 
commonly referred to as time limited dispatch (TLD). 
