 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 151 of 262 
 
(a) 
After the basic 150-hour endurance test, the Engine may be subjected to a strip 
inspection in accordance with CS-E 740(i)(1). 
The Engine is then reassembled using the same parts used for the 150-hour endurance 
test except as otherwise allowed by CS-E 740(i)(2)(ii) and the additional 2-hour endurance 
test is run to CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii).  
Completion of the additional 2-hour endurance test would be followed by compliance 
with the strip inspection specifications of CS-E 740(i)(2)(iii); or  
(b) 
The 2-hour additional endurance test of CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii) may be run immediately after 
the basic 150-hour endurance test without Engine disassembly.  
The strip inspection standards that will be applied after completion of the additional 2-
hour endurance test will be those prescribed in CS-E 740(i)(2).  
(2) 
Per CS-E 50(j), the Engine control should prevent exceedance of the speed limitation associated 
with the 30-Second OEI Power rating. Nevertheless, for ensuring the shortest time of 
establishment of the corresponding power, it might be necessary to design the Engine control 
in such a manner that a short overshoot of the speed will occur at the beginning of the 30 
seconds period. This is acceptable if this is validated throughout the CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii) test.  
(3) 
In the event of a stop occurring during the four test sequences of CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii), the 
interrupted sequence needs to be repeated in full or can be re-started from the interrupt point 
if there is a technical justification acceptable to the Agency. If it is determined that the sequence 
need not be repeated in its entirety, the test should be restarted from a point where the Engine 
thermal condition would be the same as at the time of interruption. (See CS-E 740(b)(1)).  
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
 
AMC E 740(c)(4) Alternate Endurance Testing – Turbofan Engine 
(1) 
Alternate Endurance Test Concept 
The alternate endurance test is intended to address a problem faced by turbofan-Engine designs 
disadvantaged by the classic endurance test where speed and temperature limiting conditions 
must be demonstrated concurrently. These Engines, for which this demonstration is not 
representative of the in-service operation, can be subjected to excessively severe conditions 
(normally due to reduced effectiveness of secondary air-cooling systems) during the test. The 
alternate endurance test allows more representative conditions to be tested, provided that 
those conditions are established by a validated critical point analysis, and provided that the 
overall severity of the test is at least equivalent to the intent of the classic endurance test by an 
extended test duration. This, in turn, makes it possible to test a more representative hardware 
configuration (avoiding modifications otherwise necessary to be able to complete the classic 
endurance test, also called ‘enabling’ modifications). 
(2) 
Critical Point Analysis (CPA) 
The CPA is the process in which the actual/expected in-service running conditions of a 
production Engine are assessed (taking into account new to fully deteriorated Engine condition, 
and the whole Engine operating envelope). This assessment should then be considered further 
in the severity assessment for creep and other relevant damage mechanisms.  
