 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 205 of 262 
 
cones, spinners, inlet surfaces, blades and vanes, etc. need to be established or 
conservatively assessed for determining critical points.  
(iii)  
Engine power level  
The entire envelope of power/thrust conditions should be analysed. While 
rundown and flameout are predominantly low power/thrust anomalies, 
compressor stability problems could occur at high power/thrust.  
(iv)  
Engine parasitics  
The variability of Engine parasitics, such as air bleeds and accessory loads, should 
be analysed for their effect on the critical points.  
(c) 
Critical Point Analysis Procedure 
The critical point analysis is an assessment of the Engine's capability throughout its 
operating envelope, given the range of event variables described above and any Engine 
operability condition which is affected by ingested rain or hail. Typical operability 
conditions to consider include surge and stall margin, fuel control rundown margin, 
combustor flameout margin and instrumentation sensing errors. The critical point 
analysis should also address case contraction.  
(5) 
Compliance Methods 
(a) 
General 
An Engine compliance test method consistent with the critical point analysis may include 
the use of a ground-level static facility with appropriate means of conducting Engine tests 
with the ingestion of simulated rain and hail at the increased concentrations that are 
necessary to produce in-flight effects on the concentrations of ingested rain and hail and 
to compensate for the differences between the critical point conditions and the ground-
level test conditions. Other possibilities for demonstrating compliance include wind 
tunnel testing, direct core water-injection tests, component rig tests, scale model tests, 
and analyses.  
(b) 
Test Point Selection 
The critical hail point(s) and rain point(s) that yield the least operability margin should be 
demonstrated by Engine ingestion testing. Additional test points should be considered if 
any of the operability margins are determined to be minimal (i.e. compressor surge and 
stall, combustor blow-out, fuel control rundown, instrumentation sensing errors, etc.).  
(c) 
Critical Point Testing At Ground Level 
The applicant may test the Engine at ground-level conditions, provided the relevant 
Engine operational factors of the critical points are reproduced in a meaningful 
relationship.  
(i) 
Test Compensation 
The applicant should compensate for differences between the critical point 
conditions and the test facility conditions. These differences may include:  
(A) 
Air density 
The critical point percentage of rain and hail concentration by weight should 
be reproduced during the test. For example, 20 g/m3 of rain at 20 000 feet is 
approximately 3 per cent water by weight. At sea level this percentage of 
