 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 143 of 262 
 
The CPA must also establish maximum levels of corresponding rotor speed for an 
operating limit temperature case, and maximum levels of temperature for an 
operating limit speed case. If it is found that operating limits conditions could at 
any point be coincident, then this will need to be reflected in the demonstration. 
The applicant will then conduct analyses to identify the areas in the declared flight 
envelope where endurance test critical components are exposed to the most 
damaging conditions. Critical components are the components within the Engine 
that are most limiting in terms of useful (serviceable) life under the endurance test 
conditions. 
If the maximum critical component temperature method is used (see (v) Test 
Severity Demonstration Over Extended Operating Periods), then the applicant’s 
CPA will identify the maximum critical component temperature (this would 
normally, but not necessarily, be an operating limit Engine condition on a fully 
deteriorated Engine). The capability must also be demonstrated to establish Engine 
condition settings to achieve the same critical component temperatures during the 
test severity demonstration.  
Failure modes of endurance test critical components must also be identified in the 
CPA process for assessment and possible demonstration within the alternate 
endurance test to support the severity equivalence demonstration (further 
demonstration may also be necessary in compliance with CS-E 170). 
(iv) 
Engine Operating Limits Demonstrations (TCDS Physical Rotor Speeds and Turbine 
Gas Temperatures) 
TCDS physical rotor speed and turbine gas temperature limiting conditions must 
be demonstrated as detailed in this paragraph. 
Declared rotor operating limits values will be demonstrated in the Engine operating 
limits demonstration sections of the test and established in accordance with CS-
E 740(f). 
Concurrent operating limits demonstration of speed and turbine gas temperature 
for a particular rotor is required unless the CPA indicates it is not possible to occur 
in service within the declared operating envelope. The corresponding speed or 
temperature identified in the CPA must be met or exceeded on average during the 
demonstrations below.  
(1) 
Core Speed Operating Limits Demonstration 
The greater of maximum take-off (MTO) and maximum continuous (MCT) 
physical core speed operating limits in conjunction with at least the level of 
the corresponding temperature, as identified in the CPA, must be 
demonstrated for a minimum of 10 minutes. However, if the CPA for a new 
Engine design shows that more than 10 minutes could occur in service, or 
that physical core speed operating limits could be encountered regularly in 
service, then the core speed operating limit test time will be extended 
accordingly. Where the CPA shows a longer period is required for MCT, the 
testing will be extended at MCT conditions to cover that period. 
When demonstrated in conjunction with meeting the minimum severity 
requirements of CS-E 740(c)(4)(v), this demonstration comprises the 
