 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 84 of 262 
 
(2) 
Objective. 
The ultimate objective of a safety analysis is to ensure that the risk to the aircraft from all Engine 
Failure conditions is acceptably low. The basis is the concept that an acceptable overall Engine 
design risk is achievable by managing the individual major and hazardous Engine risks to 
acceptable levels. This concept emphasises reducing the likelihood or probability of an event 
proportionally with the severity of its effects. The safety analysis should support the Engine 
design goals such that there would not be Major or Hazardous Engine Effects that exceed the 
required probability of occurrence as a result of Engine Failure modes. The analysis should 
consider the full range of expected operations.  
(3) 
Specific means. 
(a) 
Classification of effects of Engine Failures. 
Aircraft-level Failure classifications are not directly applicable to Engine assessments 
since the aircraft may have features that could reduce or increase the consequences of 
an Engine Failure condition. Additionally, the same type-certificated Engine may be used 
in a variety of installations, each with different aircraft-level Failure classifications.  
CS-E 510 defines the Engine-level Failure conditions and presumed severity levels.  
Since aircraft-level specifications for individual Failure conditions may be more severe 
than the Engine-level specifications, there should be early co-ordination between the 
applicant and the aircraft manufacturer to ensure Engine and aircraft compatibility.  
(b) 
Component Level Safety Analysis. 
In showing compliance with CS-E 510(a), a component level safety analysis may be an 
auditable part of the design process or may be conducted specifically for demonstration 
of compliance with this rule.  
The specific specifications of CS-E 50 for the Engine Control System should be integrated 
into the overall Engine safety analysis.  
(c) 
Typical installation 
The reference to "typical installation" in CS-E 510(a)(1)(i) does not imply that the aircraft-
level effects are known, but that assumptions of typical aircraft devices and procedures, 
such as fire-extinguishing equipment, annunciation devices, etc., are clearly stated in the 
analysis.  
CS-E 510(a)(1)(i) requires the applicant to take account of aircraft-level devices in the 
Engine safety analysis. For example, the effects on the Engine failure of aircraft air ducts 
might be considered.  
It is recognised that, when showing compliance with CS-E 510(a)(3) and (4) for some 
Engine effects, the applicant may not be in a position to determine the detailed Failure 
sequence, the rate of occurrence or the dormancy period of such Failures of the aircraft 
components.  
In such cases, for Engine certification, the applicant will assume a Failure rate for these 
aircraft components. Compliance with CS-E 510(e) requires the applicant to provide, in 
the Engine instructions for installation, the list of Failures of aircraft components that 
may result in or contribute to Hazardous or Major Engine Effects. The mode of 
propagation to this effect should be described and the assumed Failure rates should be 
stated.  
