 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART F — TURBINE ENGINES - 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND OPERATIONAL 
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 257 of 262 
 
The following are typical dispatch categories: 
(a) 
No Dispatch. Configurations that do not comply with CS-E 1030(b) and/or (c) or do not 
qualify for another category should be categorised as No Dispatch.  
(b) 
Short Time Dispatch. Configurations that comply with CS-E 1030(b) and/or (c) and satisfy 
the following condition should be categorised as Short Time Dispatch: the computed 
LOTC/LOPC rate with the Fault(s) present is less than or equal to an upper limit that has 
been set at 10 times the fleet-wide average reliability criteria or “average LOTC/LOPC 
rate” for the installation. (The LOTC/LOPC rates for different installations may be found 
in AMC 20-3.)  
However, even if the Long Time Dispatch LOTC/LOPC rate is met, configurations where 
the EECS has reverted to essentially single channel operation or has lost a significant 
degree of redundancy should be categorised as Short Time. 
(c) 
Long Time Dispatch. Configurations that comply with CS-E 1030(b) and/or (c) and satisfy 
the following condition should be categorised as Long Time Dispatch: the computed 
LOTC/LOPC rate with the Fault(s) present is less than or equal to 75 percent of an upper 
limit that has been set at 10 times the fleet-wide average reliability criteria or “average 
LOTC/LOPC rate” for the installation. (The LOTC/LOPC rates for different installations may 
be found in AMC 20-3.) 
(d) 
Applicant defined dispatch. This category is for Faults that do not have an impact on the 
LOTC/LOPC rate. These Faults do not have to be included in the LOTC/LOPC analysis. It 
should be substantiated that these Fault conditions do not have an impact on the 
LOTC/LOPC rate. These configurations should be included in the TLD summary report to 
enable an appropriate maintenance programme to be developed. 
(7)  
TLD Operations Associated with the “MEL Maintenance Approach” and with the 
“Inspection/Repair Maintenance Approach.” 
The dispatch intervals for Short Time and Long Time dispatch will also depend upon the 
approach used in the maintenance programme. Where a “MEL Maintenance Approach” is used, 
and hence the time of initial occurrence of the Fault is known, the dispatch interval starts from 
the point in time when the MEL procedures identify the presence of the fault. In the 
“Inspection/Repair maintenance approach”, the Fault is assumed to have occurred half-way 
through the inspection interval and the dispatch interval is therefore assumed to have started 
accordingly from this mid-point. In each case, the analysis should support the dispatch 
interval(s). Table 3 shows an example of operating times for TLD Operations Associated with 
the “MEL Maintenance Approach” and with the “Inspection/Repair Maintenance Approach.” 
(8) 
Declaration of approved TLD operating limitations  
The approved TLD operating limitations should be declared in the manuals specified in CS-E 
20(d) and CS-E 25(a), whichever is appropriate, and provided to operators as required by Part 
21A.61. The approved TLD operating limitations are the times allowed for rectification of Faults. 
An example of the typical operating limitations for TLD is provided in Table 1. The fact that the 
Engine has been approved for TLD operations should be recorded in the Engine TCDS (See CS-E 
40(d)). 
(9)  
Flight Crew Indication 
