 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 44 of 262 
 
(b) 
The equipment identified under CS-E 20(a) must be approved as an integral part of the Engine 
and must meet the relevant specifications of CS-E. Unless the specifications prescribed in 
subpart C or E, as appropriate, will subject this equipment to such cycles of operation as to 
adequately represent all the critical conditions affecting its airworthiness to which it may be 
expected to be exposed during service, the equipment specification must state those additional 
airworthiness specifications for which evidence of compliance will be needed. 
(c) 
The equipment identified under CS-E 20(c) will be accepted for use on an Engine subject to:  
(1) 
The equipment meeting the interface specifications identified under CS-E 20(d);  
(2) 
Evidence of satisfactory compliance with CS-E 80(a);  
(3) 
Being approved under the relevant aircraft Type Certificate. 
(d) 
Equipment with high-energy rotors must be such as to meet one of the following: 
(1) 
Failures will not result in significant non containment of high energy debris, or 
(2) 
An acceptable level of integrity of the design, including the high energy parts, has been 
established, or 
(3) 
An appropriate combination of (1) and (2). 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 80  Equipment 
(1) 
The need for additional specifications in the equipment specifications should be determined 
when complying with CS-E 80 or be defined by the applicant on a general basis, for example, to 
cover more than one aircraft installation. 
Consideration of general conditions, such as those of EUROCAE ED-14 / RTCA/DO-160, allows 
the certification of equipment in a consistent manner, independent from any installation 
consideration. However, additional testing may be required in order to comply with CS-E 80(b), 
dependent on the assumed installation conditions. All equipment, including all electronic units, 
sensors, harnesses, hydromechanical elements, and any other relevant elements or units, 
should be shown to operate properly in their declared environment.  
(2) 
The manufacturer should consider the applicability of the items listed in the Tables 1 to 4 below, 
which are provided as a guide. 
Documents that provide acceptable test procedures for each item are referenced in the same 
table. The manufacturer may define other acceptable appropriate test and analysis procedures. 
Compliance is normally demonstrated by test or analysis unless the equipment is shown to be 
sufficiently similar to and operates in an environment which is the same or less severe than 
previously certified equipment for which similarity is claimed.  
The intent and applicability of each item of Tables 1 to 4 are also specified after each table.  
The following list of applicable tests or procedures (or their equivalent) is acceptable for 
evaluating equipment airworthiness.  
(a) 
General Environmental Conditions 
The following environmental conditions should be considered for all equipment. 
Table 1  
