 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 248 of 262 
 
experience data (including, if available, comparison of relevant past IMP 
demonstrations with subsequent successful entry-into-service (EIS) Engine 
experience). 
The accelerated severity cycle test should include Engine start and shutdown. 
(2) 
IMP Test Engine Configuration 
(i) 
General 
CS-E 930 requires the test to be performed with an Engine that adequately 
conforms to its final type design. Therefore, no significant Engine modification 
should be required to complete the IMP test. 
Engine parts that are included in the Engine type design but not installed on the 
Engine may be substantiated by taking credit for validated analyses and/or other 
tests. Equipment qualification performed under CS-E 80(b) may be considered an 
appropriate means of compliance in this case. 
(ii) 
Consideration of Hardware Items Not Part of the Engine Type Design 
The applicant should include in the IMP test other hardware items, or 
representative hardware items, that are not normally part of the Engine type 
design (e.g. thrust reverser, air starter, Engine build-up hardware) and that have 
an impact on the reliability of the Engine. 
(iii) 
Engine Test Configuration 
The applicant should perform the IMP test when the Engine is installed in a typical 
configuration, to the maximum extent possible.  
For example, the applicant should: 
— 
connect and operate, in a way representative of the intended service, the 
airframe accessories and the interfaces that load the Engine; 
— 
schedule, throughout the test, typical accessory loads and bleed air 
extraction that would be experienced during the Engine flight cycle. 
(iv) 
Turbopropeller Applications 
For turbopropeller Engine applications, the test should be run with an installation-
eligible propeller installed. The applicant should incorporate into the test cycle 
applicable design features, such as: 
— 
propeller braking, 
— 
auxiliary power unit (APU)-mode operation(s). 
(v) 
Turboshaft Applications 
For turboshaft applications, the applicant should load the test Engine output shaft 
to simulate the appropriate rotor drive system characteristics of the intended 
installation. Potential rotor drive system characteristics include but are not limited 
to inertial and torsional vibration. 
(3) 
Test Parameters 
The conditions achieved during the test should effectively represent the conditions 
expected during an Engine flight cycle, including: 
— 
power/thrust, 
— 
stress, 
— 
component temperature, 
— 
EGT, 
