 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 249 of 262 
 
— 
unbalance vibration. 
(4) 
Test Duration 
The total number of test cycles and the test duration should be sufficient to demonstrate 
the effectiveness of the IMP. 
Note: CS-E 930 does not require a fixed number of cycles (i.e. the IMP test is not a 1 000-
cycle test). However, the applicant should correlate the number of cycles proposed for 
the test to the planned Engine IMP. Please refer to paragraph (d)(6). 
(5) 
Pass/Fail Criteria 
(i) 
General 
The Engine type design will comply with CS-E 930 when the post-test hardware 
condition demonstrates that the Engine will remain airworthy when applying the 
proposed IMP. The Engine should comply with paragraphs (d)(5)(ii), (iii) and (iv) of 
this AMC. 
(ii) 
Test 
Over the test duration, and when the applicant follows normal ICA maintenance 
practices, the Engine should: 
— 
meet all proposed thrust or power ratings without exceeding any operating 
limitations; 
— 
be free of significant anomalies (e.g. surge, stall) when operated as per the 
operating instructions provided in compliance with CS-E 20(d). 
(iii) 
Post-Test Teardown Inspection 
A post-test teardown inspection should demonstrate that: 
— each engine part conforms to the type design; or 
— damage is evaluated and the part is considered acceptable for safe 
continued operation; or 
— damage is evaluated and the part is considered not acceptable for 
safe continued operation, but there is no imminent failure identified 
at the end of test. 
Engine parts may be considered acceptable for safe continued operation if the 
applicant includes, within the ICA, appropriate inspections and/or limitations. 
For those parts damaged beyond criteria ensuring safe continued operation, the 
applicant should substantiate the finding that there is no imminent failure and 
should provide in the ICA an appropriate fixed Engine overhaul period. 
For Engines having 30-second OEI and 2-minute OEI power ratings, the IMP test 
results may be used when showing compliance with CS-E 25(b)(2) for OEI power 
availability demonstration at the end of the fixed Engine overhaul period. 
(iv) 
Certification Documentation 
The certification documentation should identify those parts of the Engine that will 
have specific ICA requirements or recommendations that result from the IMP test. 
The final ICA should include these specific requirements and/or recommendations, 
in compliance with CS-E 25, including: 
— 
life limits, 
— 
inspections, 
— 
intervals, 
— 
accept/reject criteria. 
