 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 18 of 262 
 
Engineering Plan  
means a compilation of the assumptions, technical data and actions 
required to establish and to maintain the life capability of an Engine 
Critical Part. The Engineering Plan is established and executed as part 
of the pre- and post-certification activities.  
Manufacturing Plan  
means a compilation of the part specific manufacturing process 
constraints, which must be included in the manufacturing definition 
(drawings, procedures, specifications, etc.) of the Engine Critical Part 
to ensure that it meets the design intent as defined by the Engineering 
Plan. 
Primary Failure  
means a Failure of a part which is not the result of the prior Failure of 
another part or system.  
Service Management Plan  means a compilation of the processes for in-service maintenance 
and repair to ensure that an Engine Critical Part achieves the design 
intent as defined by the Engineering Plan.  
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No.: E/2] 
CS-E 20 Engine Configuration and Interfaces 
(See AMC E 20) 
(a) 
The list of all the parts and equipment, including references to the relevant drawings, which 
defines the proposed type design of the Engine, must be established. 
(b) 
The aircraft certification specification code which is assumed to be applicable to the intended 
installation of the Engine must be identified under CS-E 30.  
(c) 
The aircraft parts and equipment that may be mounted on, or driven by, the Engine, which are 
not part of the declared Engine configuration and therefore are not covered by the Engine Type 
Certificate must be identified. 
(d) 
Manuals must be provided containing instructions for installing and operating the Engine. These 
instructions must contain a definition of the physical and functional interfaces with the aircraft 
and aircraft equipment. They must also include a description of the Primary and all Alternate 
Modes, and any Back-up System, together with any associated limitations, of the Engine Control 
System and its interface with the aircraft systems, including the Propeller when applicable. 
Manuals must also include interface security requirements, when necessary. 
(e) 
Engine performance data, compatible with the Engine acceptance and operating limitations, 
must be provided for aircraft certification performance, handling and stressing purposes. The 
data must be such that the power/thrust of a ‘minimum’ and a ‘maximum’ Engine can be 
derived and must include means of determining the effects on performance of variations of 
Engine bleed and power off-take, forward speed, ambient pressure, temperature and humidity. 
(f) 
For Engines having one or more OEI Ratings, data must be provided on Engine performance 
characteristics and variability to enable the aircraft manufacturer to establish power assurance 
procedures. (See AMC E 20(f)) 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
[Amdt No: E/6] 
