 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 192 of 262 
 
Engine operation until the next scheduled ‘A’ check). Furthermore, 
any damage resulting from this test should be documented in the 
manuals containing instructions for installing and operating the 
Engine. 
(ii) 
Engine Operability/Handling Characteristics. Ice slab ingestion should not 
cause surge, flameout, or prevent transient operation. 
(iii) 
In-Service Capability. Engine damage resulting from ice slab ingestion should 
not result in a failure or a performance loss that would prevent continued 
safe operation for a conservative flight operations scenario (for example, 
within the time period for an “A” check or greater, if appropriate testing 
validates a continued period of in-service capability). The period of in-service 
capability to be demonstrated may vary with installation if the damage is not 
readily evident to the crew or visible on pre-flight inspection (for example, 
tail-mounted Engines). 
(iv) 
Other Anomalies. Ice slab ingestion should not result in any other anomaly 
(for example, vibration) that may cause the Engine to exceed operating or 
structural limitations. 
(v) 
Auto-Recovery Systems. If during ice slab ingestion testing, an Engine incurs 
a momentary flameout and auto-relight, then the acceptance of that test is 
predicated on including the auto-relight system as a required part of the 
Engine type design. However, additional dispatch criteria would also be 
required where the ignition system is fully operable before each dispatch. 
The reason for the additional dispatch criteria is to ensure that the ignition 
system’s critical relight function is reliably available during the subsequent 
flight. The use of an auto-recovery system is allowed during ice slab ingestion 
certification testing, in order to account for ice accretion and shedding as a 
result of an inadvertent delay in actuating the ice protection system. This is 
considered as an abnormal operational result where operability effects, like 
momentary flameout and relight, may be accepted. 
(e) 
Communication to the Installer. The manuals containing instructions for installing 
and operating the Engine should provide information on the Engine ingestion 
capability such as size, thickness and density of the ice slab ingested. 
(5) 
Engine Air Data Probe Icing 
In accordance with paragraph (1.3) of this AMC, the accretion and shedding of ice from the 
Engine air data probe(s) should be evaluated either as part of the Engine test, or by separate 
assessment and/or testing.  
In addition, if data from an Engine air data probe is critical to ensure acceptable Engine 
operation, then the applicant should demonstrate that the Engine air data probe will operate 
normally without any malfunction under icing conditions. The icing conditions against which the 
Engine is tested may not cover the icing conditions that are critical for the Engine air data probe, 
in particular if high airflow conditions like Maximum Continuous Thrust/Power were not 
selected for the Engine tests in paragraph (2.2) above. The applicant should determine those 
critical probe icing conditions. In that respect, the guidance material of AMC 25.1324 of CS-25 
should be used along with appropriate consideration of the installation effects and dependence 
on Engine airflow. In doing that, the substantiation may be limited to the icing environment 
applicable to the aircraft on which the Engine is to be installed. 
