 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 48 of 262 
 
The thermal cycle demonstration is to demonstrate that an item of equipment will 
continue to operate and not fail or be damaged when exposed to temperature cycles and 
thermal transients consistent with the declared temperature environment. Equipment 
testing may follow the procedures defined in EUROCAE ED-14 /RTCA/DO-160, Section 5. 
If the equipment has electrical sub-components, testing of the sub-components only may 
be acceptable.  
Explosion Proofness  
The explosion proof demonstration is to verify that an item of equipment cannot cause 
an explosion of flammable fluids or vapours. If applicable, explosion proof testing may be 
performed as defined in EUROCAE ED-14 / RTCA/DO-160, section 9 (Explosion Proofness). 
Environment I defines equipment mounted in fuel tanks or within fuel systems. 
Environment II is an atmosphere in which flammable mixtures can be expected to occur 
as the result of a "Fault causing spillage or leakage".  
For installations in a Fire zone, the Fire zone will have extinguishing provisions, so that 
the explosion proof test given by Environment II of DO-160D, section 9 is adequate. 
However, Flammable Fluid Leakage areas may not have fire extinguishing provisions or 
any of the other safety specifications associated with Fire zones based on the assumption 
that there are no ignition sources in these areas. In these cases the explosion proof test 
given by Environment I of DO-160D, section 9 may be required for aircraft installation.  
Humidity  
The humidity demonstration is to demonstrate that the equipment is not adversely 
effected, operationally or structurally, by ingress of moisture. Testing may be performed 
according to EUROCAE ED-14 / RTCA/DO-160 section 6.  
Waterproofness  
The waterproofness demonstration is to verify that the equipment can function properly 
after exposure to water and identify any damage caused by water exposure that could 
lead to equipment Failure. Water testing may be performed according to EUROCAE ED-
14 / RTCA/DO-160 section 10 Category S. Following the test, if the design of the unit 
allows, the unit under test should be opened and inspected for entry of water. If evidence 
of water entry is detected, the applicant should provide the rationale for accepting the 
test results based on the criticality of the quantity and location of the water entry point.  
Power Input  
The power input demonstration applies only to electrical/electronic equipment or 
equipment with electrical/electronic sub-components that receive power directly from 
the aircraft (e.g., EEC, HMU fuel shutoff solenoid). The purpose of this test is to 
demonstrate that such equipment can accommodate the full range of power inputs 
declared for the installation. For applicable equipment, the specification may be 
substantiated by the test defined in EUROCAE ED-14 / RTCA/DO-160, section 16 and 17.  
(c) 
Mechanical Equipment 
Other specifications of CS-E may affect some equipment as follows. 
Table 3  
SUBJECT  
ACCEPTABLE TESTS/PROCEDURES  
20  
Proof Pressure  
CS-E 640(a)(1)  
21  
Burst Pressure  
CS-E 640(a)(2)  
