 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 114 of 262 
 
(iii) 
The design of the Engine oil system must be such that it is possible to complete the 
feathering and unfeathering operation under all normal operating conditions. 
(g) 
(1) 
Each brand and type of oil to be approved, and the associated limitations, must be 
declared and substantiated. 
(2) 
Any parameter of the oil specification which is likely to be critical for Engine functioning 
or durability must be identified so that, where necessary, Engine or rig testing using 
appropriate oil may be conducted. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 570 Oil system 
(1) 
Each filter or strainer requiring regular servicing should be accessible for draining and cleaning 
or replacement. For complying with CS-E 570(a)(1) in order to avoid possible leakage, each filter 
or strainer should be mounted so that its weight is not supported by the connecting lines or by 
the inlet or outlet connections of the filter or strainer, unless adequate strength margins under 
all loading conditions are provided in the lines and connections. 
(2) 
In complying with CS-E 570(a)(1), each oil tank should have an expansion space. Experience has 
shown that 10 percent of the tank capacity is adequate. It should be impossible to fill the oil 
tank expansion space inadvertently. 
(3) 
In complying with CS-E 570(a)(2)(i), filling and drainage provisions should be accessible and have 
manual or automatic means for positive locking in the closed positions. Each oil tank filler 
connection that can retain any significant quantity of oil should have provision for drainage to 
the outside of the Engine cowling.  
(4) 
In complying with CS-E 570(a)(2), access points include, but are not limited to, Magnetic Chip 
Detectors and gearbox access cover plates.  
(5) 
“Hazardous quantities”, as referred to in CS-E 570(e)(1), is defined in AMC E 130. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 580 Air Systems 
Where bleed air is used to cool or to pressurise areas of the Engine, the functions of which could be 
detrimentally affected by the ingress of foreign matter (e.g. sand or dust), the design must be such 
that the passage of foreign matter of unacceptable quantity or unacceptable size is precluded. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No. E/4] 
CS-E 590 Starter Systems 
Where the starter is declared as part of the Engine, its design, and that of its associated drive 
mechanism, must be such that over-speeding of the starter, to an extent which could result in a 
Hazardous Engine Effect, cannot occur under any Fault conditions in the Engine which cannot be 
classified as Extremely Remote. The possibility of the starter remaining connected, or subsequently 
becoming reconnected, to the Engine resulting from any Failure of the drive system must be 
considered. Where in showing compliance with this paragraph, dependence is placed on safety 
provisions to be provided as part of the installation, the need for such provisions must be declared. 
