 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 148 of 262 
 
• 
Transient EGT operating limits up to 30 seconds may be approved by 
running the Engine at the required temperature for 30 seconds of 50 
% of the prescribed periods at Take-off Thrust or Power conditions 
following an acceleration.  
• 
Transient EGT operating limits up to 2 minutes may be approved by 
running the Engine at the required temperature for 2 minutes of each 
prescribed period at Take-off Thrust or Power conditions for 5 
minutes or longer, and for the whole of all the 30-second periods at 
Take-off Thrust or Power following an acceleration.  
(B) 
In the case of the alternate endurance test specified in CS-E 740(c)(4), 
transient EGT operating limits may be approved as follows. 
• 
Transient EGT operating limits up to 30 seconds may be approved by 
running the Engine at the required temperature for 30 seconds as part 
of at least 155 periods at Take-off Thrust or Power conditions 
following an acceleration. 
• 
Transient EGT operating limits up to 2 minutes may be approved by 
running the Engine at the required temperature for 30 seconds as part 
of at least 310 periods at Take-off Thrust or Power conditions 
following an acceleration. 
(C) 
Approval for short-period transient conditions at 2½-Minute OEI Thrust or 
Power will not be considered and any temperature clearance required must 
be demonstrated normally during the 2½-Minute OEI periods of the 
endurance test. 
(v) 
Engines for Rotorcraft. Where the Engine characteristics are such that an 
acceleration from cold produces a transient over-temperature in excess of that for 
steady state running, a maximum EGT operating limit for acceleration with a time 
limitation of 2 minutes may be approved by running at the required temperature 
for the first 2 minutes of each prescribed period at Take-off Power conditions in 
excess of 2 minutes (and for the whole of all the 30-second Take-off Power periods 
for single-engined rotorcraft). Approval for short period transient conditions at 2½-
Minute OEI Power will not be considered, and any temperature clearance required 
must be demonstrated normally during the endurance test. 
(vi) 
For all Take-off Power/Thrust periods of 5 minutes or greater, 5 minutes must be 
run at the maximum oil inlet temperature declared for the condition, with the 
remainder of each 30-minute period at Take-off Power/Thrust being run at the 
normal oil temperature for take-off. If a 10-minute Take-off Power/Thrust Rating 
is sought, then 10 minutes of each 30-minute period at Take-off Power/Thrust 
must be run at the maximum oil temperature. For all MCT Power/Thrust periods 
30 minutes must be run at the maximum oil inlet temperature declared for the 
condition, the remainder of each 1½ hour period at MCT Power/Thrust being run 
at the normal oil temperature for climb/cruise. 
(vii) 
Where necessary to cater for short-duration rise of indicated oil temperature 
under service conditions above the maximum established during the endurance 
test such higher temperature may be approved as the Maximum Oil Temperature 
(with an appropriate time limitation) without additional endurance testing, 
provided that it can be demonstrated that – 
