 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART C — PISTON ENGINES, TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 78 of 262 
 
Part 3  
A 15-hour run in the lower gear ratio consisting of alternate periods of one hour 
at Maximum Continuous Power and speed and ½ hour at 70% Maximum 
Continuous Power and 89% Maximum Continuous speed.  
Part 4  
A 30-hour run in the higher gear ratio at Maximum Continuous Power and 
speed.  
Part 5  
A 5-hour run consisting of alternate periods of 5 minutes in each of the 
supercharger gear ratios. The first 5 minutes of each 10-minute period must be 
made in the higher gear ratio at Maximum Continuous speed and the power 
obtainable with 90% of Maximum Continuous power setting in the higher gear 
ratio under sea-level conditions. The condition for operation for the following 
5-minute period in the lower gear ratio must be that obtained by shifting to the 
lower gear ratio at constant speed.  
Part 6  
A 10-hour run in the lower gear ratio consisting of alternate periods of one hour 
at Maximum Continuous Power and speed and one hour at 65% Maximum 
Continuous Power and 87% Maximum Continuous speed.  
Part 7  
A 10-hour run in the lower gear ratio consisting of alternate periods of one hour 
at Maximum Continuous Power and speed and one hour at 60% Maximum 
Continuous Power and 84.5% Maximum Continuous speed.  
Part 8  
A 10-hour run in the lower gear ratio consisting of alternate periods of one hour 
at Maximum Continuous Power and speed and one hour at 50% Maximum 
Continuous Power and 79.5% Maximum Continuous speed.  
Part 9 
A 20-hour run in the lower gear ratio consisting of alternate 2-hour periods at 
Maximum Continuous Power and speed and Maximum Best Economy Cruising 
Power and speed or at Maximum Recommended Cruising Power and speed.  
Part 10 A 5-hour run in the lower gear ratio at Maximum Best Economy Cruising Power 
and speed or Maximum Recommended Cruising Power and speed.  
(3) 
Schedule for Engine Incorporating a Turbocharger. (See AMC E 440(b)(3)). For Engines 
incorporating a turbocharger, the Schedule of CS-E 440(b)(1) will apply, except that – 
(i) 
Entire run specified in Part 1 must be made at sea-level pressure, 
(ii) 
The portions of the runs specified in Parts 2 to 7 at Maximum Continuous Power 
must be made at Critical Altitude pressure and the portions of the runs at other 
powers must be made at 2 500 m altitude pressure, and 
(iii) 
The turbocharger used during the 150-hour endurance test must be run on the 
bench for an additional 50 hours at a representative inlet pressure and at the 
limiting turbine wheel inlet gas temperature and rotational speed for Maximum 
Continuous Power operation unless the limiting temperature and speed are 
maintained during 50 hours of the rated Maximum Continuous Power operation. 
(c) 
After completion of the test, the Engine must be subject to a strip inspection, and the 
dimensions measured in accordance with CS-E 440(a)(6) must be re-measured and recorded. 
The condition of the Engine must be satisfactory for safe continued operation. Separately 
functioning Engine components and equipment must be functionally checked prior to strip to 
ensure that any changes in function or settings are satisfactory for normal operation.  
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
