 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 137 of 262 
 
(c) 
The system must be operated during a suitable Engine endurance test for periods 
representative of the duration and frequency of operation of the system during likely service 
usage, and should be agreed by the Agency for individual cases. Generally, the schedule must 
include the use of continuous ignition for the maximum duration which is likely to be achieved 
in 1000 hours of service operation. 
(d) 
It is acceptable to conduct an equivalent programme by appropriate rig testing, where this is 
possible, but in this case final confirmation of suitability of the equipment in the Engine must 
be obtained by running at least 10 hours (in periods of at least ½ hour duration) of an Engine 
endurance test with the ignition in operation at the appropriate Engine conditions. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 720(a) Continuous Ignition 
The necessity for a continuously-operated system may arise, for example, in consideration of water 
or slush ingestion at take-off, ice ingestion, or for compliance with the icing specifications. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 730 Engine Calibration Test 
(See AMC E 730) 
In order to identify the Engine thrust or power changes that may occur during the endurance test of 
CS-E 740, and to ensure that performance targets are met at the end of the endurance test (as per CS-
E 740(h)), thrust or power calibration curves of the test Engine must be established either by specific 
tests accomplished immediately before and after the endurance test or by measurements obtained 
during the first and final stages of the endurance, up to the highest rated powers except for 30-Second 
and 2-Minute OEI Power ratings. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
 
AMC E 730 Calibration Tests 
(1) 
The parameters used for the calibration curves are those appropriate to, and compatible with, 
the Engine’s design. Thrust, Power, Torque, Rotational Speed, EPR (Engine Pressure Ratio), EGT 
(Exhaust Gas Temperature), are typical parameters of known Engine designs. 
(2) 
The Calibration Test should be run to cover the maximum possible rotational speed range, but 
at least to cover the range from minimum idle to the normal maximum compatible with the 
ambient external atmospheric condition of the test day. 
(3) 
The pre and post test calibration curves required by CS-E 730 should be established up to the 
highest rating to be approved for a duration of more than 2 minutes prior to the additional 
endurance test of CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii). Because the Engine operation at the 30-Second and 2-
Minute OEI Power ratings could significantly affect Engine hardware conditions, these Engine 
ratings are therefore not required to comply with the calibration specifications of CS-E 730.  
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
