 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 17 of 262 
 
((t2 – t3) / (t2 – t1)) x 100  
where  
t1 is the temperature of the air entering the charge cooler coolant 
radiator in the powerplant,  
t2 is the temperature of the charge without cooling, and  
t3 is the temperature of the charge with cooling.  
Critical Attitude 
means the maximum attitude at which, in standard atmosphere, it is 
possible to maintain, at a specified rotational speed without ram, a 
specified power or a specified manifold pressure. Unless otherwise 
stated, the critical altitude is the maximum altitude at which it is 
possible to maintain, without ram, at the maximum continuous 
rotational speed, one of the following: 
a. 
The maximum continuous power, in the case of engines for 
which this power rating is the same at sea level and at the rated 
altitude. 
b. 
The maximum continuous rated manifold pressure, in the case 
of engines the maximum continuous power of which is 
governed by a constant manifold pressure. 
Manifold Pressure  
means the absolute static pressure measured at the appropriate point 
in the induction system.  
Maximum Best Economy Cruising Power Conditions  means the crankshaft rotational speed, 
Engine manifold pressure and any other parameters recommended in 
the Engine manuals as appropriate for use with economical-cruising 
mixture strength  
Maximum Recommended Cruising Power Conditions  means the crankshaft rotational speed, 
Engine manifold pressure and any other parameters recommended in 
the Engine manuals as appropriate for cruising operation. 
(e) 
Terms associated with Engine Critical Parts 
Approved Life  
means the mandatory replacement life of a part which is approved by 
the Agency.  
Attributes  
means inherent characteristics of a finished part that determine its 
capability.  
Damage Tolerance  
means an element of the life management process that recognises the 
potential existence of component imperfections as the result of 
inherent material structure, material processing, component design, 
manufacturing or usage and addresses this situation through the 
incorporation of fracture resistant design, fracture mechanics, 
process control, and non-destructive inspection.  
Engine Critical Part  
means a part that relies upon meeting prescribed integrity 
specifications of CS-E 515 to avoid its Primary Failure, which is likely 
to result in a Hazardous Engine Effect.  
Engine Flight Cycle  
means the flight profile, or combination of profiles, upon which the 
Approved Life is based.  
