 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 185 of 262 
 
shedding. If repeat build/shed cycles have been established, the acceleration 
should be delayed to maximise the impact energy of the ice shed. 
                                                Table 1 — Standard test points 
(b)
Tests points at power/thrust below that required for sustained flight 
An additional test at the minimum power/thrust associated with descent in icing 
conditions should be conducted at an ambient temperature of -10°C or lower if 
necessary to ensure splitter/core inlet icing, consisting of repetitions of the 
following cycle: 
A 28 km horizontal extent in the LWC condition of Table 1, Column (a), appropriate 
to the temperature, followed by 5 km in the LWC condition of Table 1, Column (b), 
appropriate to the temperature, for a sufficient duration to cover an anticipated 
descent of 3 000 m. 
If the temperature required to ensure core icing is below an ambient temperature 
of -10°C, the LWC should be determined by interpolating between the conditions 
defined in Table 1. 
At the conclusion of the test, the Engine should be subjected to an acceleration, 
using a one second power/thrust control lever movement, to maximum 
power/thrust conditions, so as to simulate a balked landing. The maximum 
power/thrust conditions should then be maintained for a sufficient period to 
ensure all ice is shed or, alternatively, it may be established by visual inspection 
that any remaining ice is insignificant. 
Whenever a minimum power/thrust is required for safe operation of the Engine in 
icing conditions, the applicant should ensure that this minimum power/thrust will 
be selected when the aircraft is operating in icing conditions. If any action is 
required from the installer to fulfil this requirement, then the minimum 
power/thrust should be declared as a limitation in the manuals containing 
instructions for installing and operating the Engine. 
(c) 
Test Installation Considerations 
Altitude and ram effect have a significant impact on the Engine operating 
conditions, ice accretion and ice shedding. Therefore, the use of an altitude test 
cell is the most direct method of compliance because this approach enables the 
test to be carried out in the most representative way, requiring the minimum of 
correction to correlate Engine and icing test conditions with the real operating 
environment. It also allows accurate control of the icing conditions. However, it is 
recognised that such facilities are not always available, and alternative test 
methods are also considered acceptable, providing that evidence demonstrates 
that such testing is at least as severe. 
Ambient Air 
Temperature 
(°C) 
Altitude 
Liquid Water Content (LWC) 
(g/m3) 
Mean 
Effective 
Droplet 
Diameter(µm) 
(ft) 
(m) 
(a)  
Continuous Max 
(b) 
Intermittent 
Max 
-10 
-20 
-30 
17 000 
20 000 
25 000 
5 182 
6 096 
7 620 
0.6 
0.3 
0.2 
2.2 
1.7 
1.0 
20 
20 
20 
