 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 225 of 262 
 
expected interaction of the Engine with these systems during ingestion events. Of 
particular interest would be dynamic interactions such as auto surge recovery, any 
propeller autofeather. 
(3) 
Impact 
(a) 
The front of the Engine is defined as any part of the Engine which can be struck by a bird. 
This includes but is not limited to components such as a nose cone/spinner on the fan or 
compressor rotor, an Engine inlet guide vane assembly including the centrebody, any 
protection device, or inletmounted components. 
(b) 
Ingestion is defined as the passage of a bird into the rotating blades. 
(c) 
The term 'first stage rotor blades' when used in CS-E 800 includes the first stage of any 
fan or compressor rotor which is susceptible to a bird strike or bird ingestion. These first 
stage rotor blades are considered to be part of the front of the Engine. This definition 
encompasses ducted, unducted and aft fan designs. For aft fan designs, blades on two 
different rotors (in the primary and secondary flows) would probably need to be 
considered. 
(4) 
General 
(a) 
The Engine configuration for the test should comply with CS-E 140. The normal 
functioning of automatic systems that do not require pilot intervention is acceptable 
provided that the dispatch criticality is addressed in the appropriate documentation. 
Systems which are not part of the Engine, such as a propeller autofeather system, should 
be disabled. Any OEI ratings do not have to be taken into account for compliance with CS-
E 800(d). 
(b) 
The minimum Engine referred to in CS-E 800(b)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(i) is defined as a new Engine 
that exhibits the type design’s most limiting operating parameters with respect to the 
bird ingestion conditions prescribed by CS-E 800. These operating parameters include, 
but are not limited to the power or thrust, turbine temperature and rotor speed(s).  
(c) 
CS-E 800(g)(1) is intended to allow the certification of design changes or derivative 
Engines without conducting a full Engine test. It is not intended, considering the present 
state of the art, to be used for the certification of new Engines. However, it offers the 
possibility of future advancement. Any parametric analysis used to substantiate 
derivative Engines as allowed under CS-E 800(g)(1) should fall within a 10% variation in 
the CIP that was used to substantiate the original base Engine. The CIP(s) is (are) often 
associated with the impact load at the point of bird and rotor blade contact. This is 
generally a function of bird speed, rotor speed, and blade twist angle. This 10% variation 
in the CIP should not be assumed to be a direct tolerance on the applicant's proposed 
changes to the take-off power or thrust ratings themselves.  
(d) 
Any analytical means used in place of a test demonstration (where analysis is permitted) 
should be validated by evidence that is based on representative tests and should have 
demonstrated its capability to predict Engine test results. 
(e) 
When reference is made to an “exposed location”, this should be understood to be any 
part of the Engine which is not shielded. 
(f) 
When the CS-E 810 test is proposed as an alternative to the single large bird test (see CS-
E 800(g)(2)), the demonstration should include consideration of unbalance, as well as 
effects of the axial loading from the bird strike on bearings or other structures. 
