 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 101 of 262 
 
The general principles which are used to establish the Approved Life are similar to 
those used for rotating parts.  
However, for static pressure loaded parts, the Approved Life may be based on the 
crack initiation life plus a portion of the residual crack growth life. The portion of 
the residual life used should consider the margin to burst. If the Approved Life 
includes reliance on the detection of cracks prior to reaching the Approved Life, 
the reliability of the crack detection should be considered. If, as part of the 
Engineering Plan any dependence is placed upon crack detection to support the 
Approved Life, this should result in mandatory inspections being included in the 
Service Management Plan and in the Airworthiness Limitations Section of the 
Instructions for Continued Airworthiness. Crack growth analysis techniques should 
be validated experimentally.  
If the Approved Life of the part includes a portion of the residual crack growth life, 
the compliance with applicable certification specifications should be demonstrated 
assuming the presence of the maximum predicted size crack that can occur within 
the Approved Life of the part. In some cases, it may be necessary to limit the crack 
size allowed in service in order to demonstrate compliance with certification 
specifications other than CS-E 515, such as the blade containment requirement in 
CS-E 810. 
Some construction techniques, such as welding or casting, contain inherent 
anomalies. Such anomalies should be considered as part of the methodology to 
establish the Approved Life. Fracture mechanics is a common method for such 
assessments.  
In determining the life of the part, the temperature of the part, any temperature 
gradients, any significant vibratory or other loads (for example, flight manoeuvre) 
should be taken into account in addition to the pressure loads.  
Manufacturing and in-service inspections are an option to address the potential for 
fracture. The intervals for each specified in-service inspection should be identified. 
Engine removal rates and module and piece part availability data could serve as 
the basis for establishing the inspection interval. The manufacturing inspections 
should be incorporated into the Manufacturing Plan. Likewise, the assumed in-
service inspection procedures and intervals should be integrated into the Service 
Management Plan and included, as appropriate, in the Airworthiness Limitations 
Section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness. 
(ii) 
Tests  
When using testing as part of the substantiation of the life of the part, the basic 
load cycle should be from substantially zero differential pressure to a value that 
simulates the most critical operation stress condition and returning to substantially 
zero differential pressure.  
When a test is performed, the test pressure level should be adjusted to include the 
effects of stress due to thermal gradients in actual operation. When this is 
impossible, due to over-stress of regions other than the critical location or stress 
reversal in the Engine Flight Cycle for example, the fatigue capability in operation 
should be established by an additional analysis.  
If the part is subject to loads in addition to those resulting from differential 
pressure (e.g. flight manoeuvre loads, Engine mounting loads, etc.), an analysis 
