 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 146 of 262 
 
run of speed and temperature above the steady conditions at Take-off must 
be noted. 
(B) 
Observations of all parameters must be recorded on first establishing steady 
running conditions and thence, during periods of continuous steady running, 
at approximately 30-minute intervals. 
(C) 
During cyclic or other running, sufficient observations must be made to 
establish the power/thrust, speed and temperature conditions of the Engine 
whenever significant readings can be taken. 
(ii) 
Turbine Engines for Rotorcraft. 
Readings of power, rotational speed, nozzle position and EGT must be taken at 
idling speed and at the maximum speed obtained on acceleration. The over run of 
speed and temperature above the steady conditions at Take-off Power must be 
noted. These observations are likely to be affected by the types of instruments 
used and must therefore be coupled with this information in the endurance test 
report.  
(e) 
Oil Pressure. The whole of the endurance test must be run with the oil pressure set to a value 
which is within the limits declared for Engine acceptance, except that –  
(1) 
Stage 22 of the test schedule specified in CS-E 740(c)(1), (2) and (3), or an equivalent 
demonstration in the alternate endurance test specified in CS-E 740(c)(4), if applicable, 
must be run with the pressure set to give that declared as the minimum for completion 
of the flight, at MCT conditions; and 
(2) 
One other stage, or an equivalent demonstration in the alternate endurance test 
specified in CS-E 740(c)(4), if applicable, must be run with the pressure set to give that 
declared as the maximum normal, at MCT conditions. During this stage, the oil 
temperature need not be held at its maximum value. Alternatively, this test may be 
omitted from the endurance test if appropriate evidence is available from other testing. 
(f) 
Operating Limitations. The normal Engine operating limitations of power, rotational speed, EGT, 
bleed, oil temperature, etc., to be established under CS-E 40(d) and CS-E 40(g), will be based on 
the mean values obtained during the appropriate periods of the endurance test, including, 
when applicable, the mean values obtained during the applications of the 30-Second and 2-
Minute OEI Power conditions in the 2-hour additional endurance test sequence of CS-E 740 
(c)(3)(iii).  
 
The EGT limitations may be derived from an analysis when the applicant uses the alternate test 
specified in CS-E 740(c)(4) (see CS-E 740(f)(4)(ii) below). 
Similarly, the degrees of compressor and turbine bleed that may be approved are the 
percentages of the mass flow which have been demonstrated during the endurance test, except 
as provided by CS-E 690(a)(3)(ii). 
(1) 
The characteristics of multi-spool Engines may be such that it is not possible to obtain the 
maximum rotational speed of each spool simultaneously at sea-level test bed conditions, 
without making the Engine unacceptably non-standard, or running it in a non-
representative manner. In such circumstances, the endurance test must be run at the 
turbine entry temperatures for which approval is sought, and evidence from 
supplementary endurance testing, to a schedule acceptable to the Agency, must be 
provided to substantiate the approval of any higher rotational speed limitations desired. 
(See AMC E 740(f)(1)) 
