CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 121 of 262 
where T inlet is the module gas path inlet temperature in Kelvin and the exponent e is 
determined empirically but has a typical value of 0.5. Corrected speed is a parameter 
widely used in performance modelling. 
Declared 
Flight 
Envelope: 
The declared flight envelope is the set of all airborne and ground conditions of 
operation to be approved, including start-up, shutdown and windmilling rotation in 
flight. 
Resonance: 
Resonance is a condition that occurs when an oscillatory force applied to a component 
has a frequency that coincides with one of the component’s natural frequencies, 
resulting in an elevated vibratory response. A unique vibratory mode exists for each 
natural frequency. 
Flutter: 
Flutter is a self-excited vibration of a component in a gas flow, caused by a continuous 
interaction between the gas flow and the structure, in which energy from the flow is 
diverted to the structure such that the vibratory response is sustained or increased. In 
turbomachinery, it usually occurs at a natural frequency of the structure and in the 
associated mode shape. 
Significant 
Response: 
A significant response is one in which a vibratory stress exceeds the level that has been 
previously agreed by the Agency as providing acceptable margin under CS-E 70 and CS-
E 100 for the type of feature concerned. 
Endurance 
Limit: 
The endurance limit of a component is the maximum value of alternating stress that, 
when repeated for an essentially infinite number of cycles, will not result in high cycle 
fatigue failure of the component. 107 cycles have generally been accepted as 
‘essentially infinite’. The endurance limit is a function of steady-state stress, 
temperature, geometry and material properties. 
(2)
Introduction
The intent of the rule is to ensure the acceptable dynamic behaviour of all components and
assemblies in a gas turbine Engine. More specifically, the rule is aimed at the avoidance of
damaging high cycle fatigue failures.
(3)
Selection of Components
CS-E 650(a) requires that the survey covers all components that may be subject to mechanically
or aerodynamically induced vibrations. Component selection for the survey should be based on
an appropriate combination of experience, analysis, and component test. The selected
components would normally include:
— 
the most critical blades and vanes, from a vibration point of view, in the fan and each
compressor and turbine module;
— 
all blade rows adjacent to variable incidence vanes; 
— 
all fan, compressor and turbine discs and spacers; 
— 
all main rotor shaft systems (and gears, when included in such systems); 
— 
any other component specifically identified as requiring Engine test to substantiate 
analysis and/or to supplement component tests. 
(4)
Test Conditions
A test or series of tests is an essential element of the survey. Whether the tests are new or
baseline, the following conditions apply:
(a)
Rig testing
Normally, a full Engine test is the preferred means to complete the survey. However, an
applicant may elect to use rig tests for overcoming limitations associated with a full
