 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 96 of 262 
 
Consequently, the methodology has not explicitly addressed the occurrence of 
such anomalies, although some level of tolerance to anomalies is implicitly built-in 
using design margins, factory and field inspections, etc. A Damage Tolerance 
Assessment explicitly addresses the anomalous condition(s) and complements the 
fatigue life prediction system. It should be noted that the ‘Damage Tolerance 
Assessment’ is a part of the design process and not a method for returning cracked 
parts to service whilst monitoring crack growth.  
2.  
Anomaly types 
Material anomalies.  
Material anomalies include abnormal discontinuities or non-homogeneities 
introduced during the production of the input material or melting of the material. 
Some examples of material anomalies that should be considered are hard alpha 
anomalies in titanium, oxide/carbide (slag) stringers in nickel alloys, and ceramic 
particulate anomalies in powder metallurgy materials unintentionally generated 
during powder manufacturing.  
Manufacturing anomalies.  
Manufacturing anomalies include anomalies produced in the conversion of the 
ingot-to-billet and billet-to-forging steps as well as anomalies generated or 
activated by the material heat treatment or the metal removal and finishing 
processes used during manufacture and/or repair. Examples of conversion-related 
anomalies are forging laps and strain-induced porosity. Some examples of metal-
removal-related anomalies are tears due to broaching, arc burns from various 
sources and disturbed microstructure due to localised overheating of the 
machined surface. Activated anomalies include material anomalies which become 
more crack-like or are opened during heat treatment or when disturbed by metal 
removal methods.  
Service-induced anomalies.  
Service-induced anomalies such as non-repaired nicks, dings and scratches, 
corrosion, etc. should be considered. Similarity of hardware design, installation, 
exposure and maintenance practice should be used to determine the relevance of 
the experience.  
3.  
Elements of a Damage Tolerance Assessment. 
The damage tolerance assessment should include the two following elements: 
— 
The establishment of a minimum level of damage tolerance capability for 
each critical component using either a probabilistic approach or a 
deterministic approach. These should address the anomaly types described 
in paragraph 2. above, 
— 
The establishment of a service damage monitoring process in order to gain 
assurance that service damage is consistent with serviceable and repairable 
limits and to initiate appropriate action if damage is found outside these 
established limits. 
4.  
Establishment of a minimum level of damage tolerance capability. 
a. Probabilistic approach.  
