 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 91 of 262 
 
— Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE), Document No. ARP 4761, "Guidelines and 
Methods for Conducting the Safety Assessment Process on Civil Airborne Systems and 
Equipment". 
— Carter, A.D.S., Mechanical Reliability (2nd ed.). Macmillan, 1986.  
(6) 
Definitions. 
The following definitions are applicable. They should not be assumed to apply to the same or 
similar terms used in other specifications or AMCs. 
Dormant Failure. A Failure the effect of which is not detected for a given period of time.  
Failure condition. A condition with direct, consequential Engine-level effect, caused or 
contributed to by one or more Failures. Examples include limitation of thrust 
to idle or oil exhaustion.  
Failure mode. 
The cause of the Failure or the manner in which an item or function can fail. 
Examples include Failures due to corrosion or fatigue, or Failure in jammed 
open position.  
Toxic products. 
Products that act as or have the effect of a poison when humans are exposed 
to them. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No.: E/4] 
[Amdt. No.: E/7] 
CS-E 515  Engine Critical Parts 
(See AMC E 515) 
The integrity of the Engine Critical Parts identified under CS-E 510 must be established by:  
(a) 
An Engineering Plan, the execution of which establishes and maintains that the combinations 
of loads, material properties, environmental influences and operating conditions, including the 
effects of parts influencing these parameters, are sufficiently well known or predictable, by 
validated analysis, test or service experience, to allow each Engine Critical Part to be withdrawn 
from service at an Approved Life before Hazardous Engine Effects can occur. Appropriate 
Damage Tolerance assessments must be performed to address the potential for Failure from 
material, manufacturing and service-induced anomalies within the Approved Life of the part. 
The Approved Life must be published as required in CS-E 25(b). 
(b) 
A Manufacturing Plan which identifies the specific manufacturing constraints necessary to 
consistently produce Engine Critical Parts with the Attributes required by the Engineering Plan. 
(c) 
A Service Management Plan which defines in-service processes for maintenance and repair of 
Engine Critical Parts which will maintain Attributes consistent with those required by the 
Engineering Plan. These processes must become part of the instructions for continued 
airworthiness. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 515 Engine Critical Parts 
(1) 
Introduction 
