 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 229 of 262 
 
applied during aircraft certification to further mitigate the potential effects of 
blade Failures at the aircraft level.  
Note (3): A Hazardous Engine Effect following a blade Failure may be found 
acceptable under CS-E 810(a), providing it can be shown that it occurs at a rate not 
in excess of that defined as Extremely Remote. However, the applicant must ensure 
that this Engine Effect is acceptable for compliance with other specifications of CS-
E. For instance, if a blade Failure results in a shaft failure, this would be 
unacceptable under CS-E 850(a)(1) and/or CS-E 840(c), even though it is shown to 
occur at a rate not in excess of that defined as Extremely Remote. 
(3) 
Running Following a Blade Failure 
(a) 
The tests should be conducted on a complete Engine, mounted in such a manner that the 
reactions induced by the out-of-balance on the Engine carcass and mounts will be 
representative of those which would occur in the installed condition. Alternatively, tests 
may be carried out on a rig but consideration should be given to the effects of shaft power 
input, further subsequent damage, heavy out-of-balance forces on other parts of the 
Engine, possible shaft Failure, etc., when interpreting the test results as being indicative 
that no hazardous damage would occur in a complete Engine. 
(b) 
Test Conditions. Separate tests should be carried out on each compressor and turbine 
stage that is adjudged to be most critical from the point of view of Engine damage 
subsequent to blade Failure as a result of out-of-balance forces that exist during the 
period prior to the Engine shutdown. 
(i) 
The Engine should be run, with an out-of-balance that is representative of the loss 
of a blade from the top of the retention member, at the maximum rotational speed 
to be approved (other than the Maximum Engine Over-speed) until either the 
Engine stops of its own accord, or a period of at least 15 seconds has elapsed. 
(ii) 
During the run, the power setting should not be altered. 
(c) 
Condition after Tests. On completion of the tests, the result should be such that there is 
no unsafe condition. A complete Engine shutdown is permitted.  
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
[Amdt No: E/7] 
CS-E 820 Over-torque Test 
(a) 
If approval of a Maximum Engine Over-torque is sought for an Engine incorporating a free power 
turbine, compliance with this paragraph must be demonstrated by test. 
(1) 
The test may be run, if desired, as part of the endurance test of CS-E 740. Alternatively, 
evidence may be provided from tests of a complete Engine or equivalent testing of 
individual groups of components.  
(2) 
On conclusion of such tests, the stripped condition of the Engine or individual groups of 
components must be satisfactory for continued running. (See AMC E 820(a)(2)) 
(b) 
The test conditions must be as follows: 
(1) 
A total of 15 minutes run at the Maximum Engine Over-torque to be approved. This may 
be done in separate runs, each being of at least 2½-minutes duration. 
