 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 35 of 262 
 
Single Failures leading to loss, interruption or corruption of Aircraft-Supplied Data, or data 
shared between Engines must:  
(1) 
Not result in a Hazardous Engine Effect for any Engine. 
(2) 
Be detected and accommodated. The accommodation strategy must not result in an 
unacceptable change in thrust or power or an unacceptable change in Engine operating 
and starting characteristics. The effects of these Failures on Engine power or thrust, 
Engine operability and starting characteristics throughout the flight envelope must be 
evaluated and documented. 
The specification of CS-E 50(g)(2) does not apply to thrust or power command signals 
from the aircraft.  
(h) 
Aircraft Supplied Electrical Power. 
(1) 
The Engine Control System must be designed so that the loss or interruption of electrical 
power supplied from the aircraft to the Engine Control System will not - 
(i) 
Result in a Hazardous Engine Effect, 
(ii) 
Cause the unacceptable transmission of erroneous data. 
The effect of the loss or interruption of aircraft supplied electrical power must be taken 
into account in complying with CS-E 50(c)(1). 
(2) 
When an Engine dedicated power source is required for compliance with CS-E 50(h)(1), 
its capacity should provide sufficient margin to account for Engine operation below idle 
where the Engine Control System is designed and expected to recover Engine operation 
automatically.  
(3) 
The need for, and the characteristics of, any electrical power supplied from the aircraft 
to the Engine Control System for starting and operating the Engine, including transient 
and steady state voltage limits, must be identified and declared in the Engine instructions 
for installation. 
(4) 
Low voltage transients outside of the power supply voltage limitations, declared under 
CS-E 50(h)(3), must meet the specifications of CS-E 50(h)(1). The Engine Control System 
must resume normal operation when aircraft supplied electrical power returns to within 
the declared limits.  
(i) 
Air Pressure Signal. 
The effects of blockage or leakage of the signal lines on the Engine Control System must be 
considered as part of the system safety assessment of CS-E 50(d) and the appropriate design 
precautions adopted.  
(j) 
Engines having a 30-Second OEI Power Rating must incorporate means or provision for means 
for automatic availability and automatic control of the 30-Second OEI Power within its operating 
limitations. (See AMC E 50(j)) 
(k) 
Means for shutting down the Engine rapidly must be provided. 
(l) 
Information System Security Protection.  
Engine Control Systems, including networks, software and data, must be designed and installed 
so that they are protected from intentional unauthorised electronic interactions (IUEIs) that 
may result in adverse effects on the safety of the aircraft. The security risks and vulnerabilities 
must be identified, assessed, and mitigated as necessary. The applicant must make procedures 
