 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 25 of 262 
 
Proper definition of the instructions for continued airworthiness is expected to 
have anticipated and accounted for such in-service conditions; this programme 
should however be structured to validate that such in-service differences are 
properly accounted for. If the data obtained during the execution of the 
programme indicates that the in-service differences are not properly accounted 
for, then the data from the programme or from additional Engine testing should 
be used to modify the instructions as appropriate.  
(ii) 
The in-service Engine evaluation programme should include some type of service 
Engine testing and / or evaluations of service usage of the 30-Second / 2-Minute 
OEI ratings, although equivalent service Engine test experience on engines of 
similar design is acceptable as an alternative. This part of the programme would 
consist of, but not be limited to, one or more of the following elements: 
— Scheduled tests of in-service Engines imposing three applications of 30 seconds 
OEI rated power, while either installed in the rotorcraft or in an Engine test 
cell. For selected representative aged engines, the programme would include 
number and frequency of samples, as well as inspection and test specifications. 
Such specifications should include the recording of data on the available power 
and the identification of the hardware condition before and after 30-Second 
and 2-Minute OEI rating usage.  
— Unscheduled tests of engines of opportunity imposing three applications of 30 
seconds OEI rated power. The programme may include actions to be taken 
when Engines become available that meet certain predetermined criteria. 
Definition of selection criteria for representative aged engines should be 
included in the programme. Inspection / test specifications on such engines 
should include the recording of data on the available power and the 
identification of the hardware condition before and after 30-Second and 2-
Minute OEI rating usage.  
— Service usage of 30-second/2 minute OEI rated power. This may include 
recorded power available data, post usage power available data and / or 
results of the mandatory maintenance and inspection actions.  
— The equivalent service test on engines of similar design is acceptable although 
it should be demonstrated as being representative.  
The aircraft certification testing of the 30-Second and/or 2-Minute OEI ratings 
could also provide additional recorded data with respect to available power, post-
usage power data and results of hardware maintenance and inspection of the 
Engine, to support the programme. 
In addition to the tests on engines from service, the in-service evaluation 
programme may also include test evidence from development or certification tests 
to reduce, but not eliminate, the required number of engines from service. 
During the execution of the in-service evaluation programme, the instructions for 
continued airworthiness should be modified as necessary, based on the results. 
Similarly, if circumstances warrant, the programme itself may be modified, as 
additional in-service data become available. 
(iii) 
The information or actions needed from the operator to support the in-service 
evaluation programme may be prescribed in the airworthiness limitation section 
of the instructions for continued airworthiness. 
