 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 92 of 262 
 
Because the Failure of an Engine Critical Part is likely to result in a Hazardous Engine Effect, it is 
necessary to take precautions to avoid the occurrence of Failures of such parts. Under CS-E 
510(c), they are required to meet prescribed integrity specifications.  
For that purpose, an Engineering Plan, a Manufacturing Plan and a Service Management Plan 
are required under CS-E 515. These three plans define a closed-loop system which link the 
assumptions made in the Engineering Plan to how the part is manufactured and maintained in 
service; the latter two aspects are controlled by the Manufacturing and Service Management 
Plans respectively. These plans may generate limitations which are published in the 
Airworthiness Limitation Section of the Instruction for Continued Airworthiness. This AMC 
provides means for the establishment of such plans.  
(2) 
General 
(a) 
Identification of Engine Critical Parts  
The safety analysis required under CS-E 510 identifies Engine Critical Parts that are 
required to comply with CS-E 515. An Engine Critical Part is a Critical Part, by definition, 
with regard to compliance with Part 21.  
If a part is made of various sub-parts, which are finally integrated in an inseparable 
manner into a unique part, and any one of the sub-parts is identified as an Engine Critical 
Part, the entire part is then treated as an Engine Critical Part.  
(b) 
Attributes of a part 
‘Attributes’ include, but are not limited to, material mechanical properties, material 
microstructure, material anomalies, residual stress, surface condition, and geometric 
tolerances. Processes such as alloy melting practise, ingot conversion to billet or bar, 
forging, casting, machining, welding, coating, shot peening, finishing, assembly, 
inspection, storage, repair, maintenance and handling may influence the Attributes of the 
finished part. Environmental conditions experienced in service may also affect the 
Attributes.  
(c) 
Content of a plan 
The Engineering Plan, Manufacturing Plan and Service Management Plan should provide 
clear and unambiguous information for the management of the Engine Critical Parts.  
‘Plan’, in the context of this rule, does not necessarily mean having all technical 
information contained in a single document. If the relevant information exists elsewhere, 
the plan may make reference to drawings, material specifications, process specifications, 
manuals, etc., as appropriate. It should be noted that these references should be clear 
enough to uniquely identify the referenced document. The plan should allow the history 
of the individual part number to be traced.  
(3) 
Means for defining an Engineering Plan 
(a) 
Introduction 
The Engineering Plan consists of comprehensive life assessment processes and 
technologies that ensure that each Engine Critical Part can be withdrawn from service at 
a life before Hazardous Engine Effects can occur. These processes and technologies 
address the design, test validation, and certification aspects, and also define those 
manufacturing and service management processes that should be controlled in order to 
achieve the Engine Critical Part design intent.  
(b) 
Elements of the Engineering Plan 
