 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 26 of 262 
 
(5)  
For an Engine with a 30-Minute Power rating, the usage of this rating should be considered in 
the establishment of instructions for continued airworthiness. Usage limitations, such as the 
cumulated time limit for the 30-Minute Power rating, should be specified in the appropriate 
section of the ICA. Instructions should also be included for when these limits are reached. 
(6) 
The applicant for the certification of a piston Engine may substantiate a time between overhauls 
(TBO) or a time between replacements (TBR). 
TBO is a recommended number of running hours or calendar time before the Engine requires 
overhaul.  
TBR is a recommended number of running hours or calendar time before the Engine requires 
replacement (instead of overhaul).  
The substantiation of the recommended TBO/TBR running hours should be performed as 
follows. 
(a) 
The applicant may use the 150-hour endurance test required by CS-E 440 for the 
substantiation of the TBO/TBR. The applicant may then propose a TBO/TBR ranging 
between 600 flight hours (e.g. for fully new designs) and 1 000 flight hours (e.g. for 
derivative designs). The TBO/TBR value should be agreed by EASA. 
(b) 
If the applicant wishes to propose a TBO/TBR higher than what the CS-E 440 test allows 
it to substantiate (see paragraph (6)(a) above), then the following method may be used.  
(i) 
An additional Engine cyclic durability test should be run on an Engine 
representative of the type design. 
(ii) 
The cycle profile should be based on estimated aircraft flight profiles. 
(iii) 
The number of cycles should be representative of the TBO/TBR intended to be 
declared and should represent a level of Engine deterioration at least equivalent 
to that of an Engine at the end of the intended TBO/TBR. 
(iv) 
The instructions for continued airworthiness associated with the intended 
TBO/TBR should be performed and validated during the Engine cyclic test. 
(v) 
Complementary analysis and/or testing should be provided to support any aspects 
not adequately demonstrated throughout the Engine cyclic durability test. 
(vi) 
If it is proposed to subject the tested Engine to any kind of strip examination during 
the test in order to validate an interim TBO/TBR, it should then be shown that 
cleaning or replacement of any seal or component (e.g. bolts) during reassembly 
of the Engine will not favourably influence the outcome of the test. 
(vii) 
Past experience with Engines of similar design and/or in-service operation, where 
applicable, may also be used as alternative evidence to support or complement the 
proposed TBO/TBR. 
The credit taken for the duration of such cyclic durability test should use a factor of 1, 
unless the applicant can justify, and EASA accepts, a higher value. 
(c) 
The applicant may also include a calendar time in the recommended TBO/TBR that takes 
into account Engine components degradation that are time dependent, such as ageing of 
some material, corrosion, etc. 
(d) 
The TBO/TBR should be declared, and the necessary corresponding instructions (e.g. an 
Engine overhaul manual when using a TBO) should be provided, as required by CS-E 25(a).  
 
