 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 203 of 262 
 
the Engine during an extreme rain or hail encounter by incorporating certain design 
features. However, there may be a trade-off with some of these design features. For 
instance, a spinner designed to maximise hail rebound and rain droplet centrifuging may 
also result in a spinner which is more susceptible to large ice accretions. 
(b) 
Design Features 
With knowledge of the power-loss and instability phenomena, the applicant can 
incorporate design features that increase the Engine's tolerance to rain and hail 
ingestion. 
(i) 
Fan blade or Propeller design and operating speeds. 
The fan blade or Propeller, under the right conditions, can effectively centrifuge 
small droplets of rain away from the Engine core. Hail particles and large droplets 
of rain can also be moved away from the Engine core by the fan blade or Propeller, 
but with considerably less effectiveness. The applicant should consider the relative 
velocity effects at the critical points when establishing fan blade or Propeller 
geometry and operating speeds.  
(ii) 
Spinner or nose cone 
A spinner or nose cone can effectively deflect rain and hail away from the Engine 
core. Designing the spinner or nose cone to maximise hail deflection requires 
knowledge of the post impact trajectory characteristics of hail particles.  
(iii)  
Bypass splitter  
In the case of turbofan Engines, increasing the gap between the fan blades' trailing 
edges and the bypass splitter will normally tend to enhance the benefits, to the 
Engine core, of the centrifugal effects of the fan blades.  
(iv) 
Engine air bleeds 
Engine air bleeds ports provide a direct means of redirecting or extracting rain and 
hail away from the Engine core and a direct means of improving compressor surge 
and stall margins. The effectiveness of the bleed port in extracting liquid water or 
hail particles out of the Engine core will depend on the radial distribution of the 
water or hail particles, the location and the entrance geometry of the bleed port 
and the bleed control logic. Also, in the case of hail, the bleed port should be 
designed to minimise the likelihood of clogging and blockage.  
(v) 
Engine and aircraft accessory loads 
Accessory loads will tend to move the fuel control operating line closer to the 
acceleration schedule and, therefore, should be minimised, where possible, while 
in rain and hail conditions.  
(vi) 
Fuel control 
Fuel controls that schedule fuel using a rate change of compressor speed should 
provide consistent acceleration and deceleration thrust response during rain or 
hail ingestion.  
(vii) 
Variable stator vane 
The schedule of the compressor variable stator vanes directly affects the 
compressor performance, operability and stability characteristics. Weather-
related sensing or scheduling errors may cause a loss of surge or stall margin.  
