 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 62 of 262 
 
For those systems or components which cannot be adequately substantiated by other tests of CS-E, 
additional tests or analyses must be conducted to demonstrate that the systems or components are 
able to perform the intended functions in all declared environmental and operating conditions. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 170  Engine systems and component verification 
The intent of CS-E 170 is to define the additional tests or analysis which would be necessary for those 
systems or components which are not necessarily tested during the endurance test of CS-E 440 or CS-
E 740.  
It is also recognised that the other specifications of CS-E do not always provide sufficient testing to 
cover all the conditions (pressure, temperature, vibration, etc.) which could affect the airworthiness 
of a piece of equipment throughout the declared flight envelope and within all the declared 
installation conditions.  
Other reasons for testing under CS-E 170 include, but are not limited to, the following examples:  
— When testing is required in support of CS-E 50(a) for validation throughout the declared flight 
envelope and within all the declared installation conditions.  
— When a pressure relief valve, in the inlet manifold of a turbocharged Engine, and the effect of its 
operation on the Engine and turbocharger are untested during the scheduled test of CS-E 440. 
— When, for example, an over-speed protection system (or a torque limiter) is unlikely to be tested 
during the scheduled tests of CS-E 740.  
— When an Electronic Engine Control System has a mechanical back-up which is not normally used 
during the endurance test.  
— When demonstration that a Failure indicating system, on which dependence is placed in the 
Engine safety analysis, will function satisfactorily when required.  
The Engine manufacturer should define all necessary testing and / or analysis for those accessories or 
systems that need specific substantiation, in addition to the certification tests performed on a 
complete Engine, with attention paid to their location and operating conditions. Unless it is necessary 
to test the functioning of a system itself, substantiation of individual components can be made 
separately from the system they are part of. 
The objective of CS-E 50(a), in conjunction with CS-E 80 or CS-E 170, is to demonstrate that the Engine 
Control System can perform its intended function in its installed environment. In particular, Electronic 
Engine Control Systems are sensitive to lightning and other electromagnetic interference and these 
conditions can be common to more than one Engine. Advisory material for environmental effects 
other than lightning and electromagnetic effects can be found in AMC E 80.  
If, for compliance with CS-E 170, high intensity radiated fields (HIRF)/Lightning tests are carried out on 
anything other than a representative complete Engine, the test results may depend on the validity of 
the assumed electrical bonding between those elements of the Engine that are tested and the main 
Engine earth. In such cases, the applicant should demonstrate that these electrical bonding 
assumptions are valid.  This may be accomplished by examination of the type design drawings, 
electrical continuity checks, or actual inspection of a representative Engine.  
For compliance with CS-E 170, the functional integrity of the Engine Control System should be 
maintained when subjected to designated levels of electric or electromagnetic induction, including 
effects from external radiation and lightning. The environment, including radiated and conducted 
emissions, to which the Engine Control System and its components are qualified should be entered 
