 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 175 of 262 
 
(c) 
If testing facilities are not available to demonstrate the effects of power extraction required in 
CS-E 745(b)(2) and (3), this must be accomplished through appropriate analytical means. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
AMC E 745 Engine Acceleration 
(1) 
Compliance with CS-E 745 may be demonstrated during tests performed to meet other sections 
of CS-E. 
(2) 
In complying with CS-E 745(a)(1) and (a)(2) for evaluation of a potential ‘over-temperature’, the 
appropriate adverse combination is probably ‘maximum bleed air and maximum power 
extraction’. For evaluation of ‘surge’ and ‘stall’, the combination should probably be ‘no bleed 
air and maximum power extraction’. An ‘over-temperature’ event is considered as being any 
exceedence of the steady state and transient values which are substantiated under CS-E 740. 
(3) 
The ‘minimum test bed idle’ which is referenced for rotorcraft Engines in CS-E 745(a) or other 
CS-E paragraphs is the minimum practically possible power extraction from the Engine in the 
test facility while the output shaft is at the governed speed. 
(4) 
If, when complying with CS-E 745(a)(3), an acceleration time longer than 5 seconds is 
experienced, the justification should address operational aspects as well as aircraft certification 
specifications for the intended installation. For example, this would be considered for the very 
large engines which could have a difficulty in meeting exactly the 5 seconds because of the 
inertia of their rotors or other reasons. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
CS-E 750 Starting Tests 
(a) 
Twenty-five cold starts (i.e. after the Engine has been stopped for not less than two hours) and 
ten hot starts (i.e. within 15 minutes of shutting-down after the previous running) must be 
specifically made at evenly distributed intervals throughout the endurance test of CS-E 740. 
Time to light up and accelerate to idling conditions must be recorded.  
(b) 
Ten False Starts, each followed by a normal start immediately on expiry of the declared drainage 
period, must be made at evenly distributed intervals throughout the endurance test. Failure to 
start must be simulated on these occasions by rendering the ignition circuit inoperative. 
Following each False Start, the combustion chambers, air casings, etc., may be drained, by the 
normal means provided, of any fuel which may have accumulated. (See AMC E 750(b)) 
(c) 
At the conclusion of the endurance test the number of starts must be made up to a total of one 
hundred. The additional starts necessary to make this aggregate may be ‘hot’ or ‘cold’ starts. 
All attempted starts including those prescribed in CS-E 750(b) must count towards the total, 
provided that the normal starting cycle is completed. 
(d) 
In the case of a free power-turbine Engine for Rotorcraft, each normal start must be made with 
the free power-turbine locked and followed by a run at Ground Idling Conditions for three 
minutes with the free power-turbine stationary in order to simulate the operation of the Engine 
in the rotorcraft with the rotor system locked. 
(e) 
Full details of all starts made throughout the endurance test must be recorded. Times to light 
up and accelerate to idling conditions must be recorded, together with details of all attempted 
starts, and the reasons for any Failures. 
