 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 189 of 262 
 
(viii)  Engine control sensors and measurement systems which may be affected by 
operation in ice crystal conditions and which may result in unacceptable 
control system response; 
(ix)  
negative air temperature gradient along the gas path resulting in a potential 
accretion site downstream of melting; and 
(x)  
surfaces with low temperatures downstream of or coincident with where 
melting could have occurred. 
(b) 
Comparative Analysis. If service experience of comparable Engine design(s) is available, 
the applicant should perform a comparative analysis between previous designs and the 
new design in mixed phase/ice crystal icing conditions. The analysis should compare both 
design features and operational factors. 
Where the analysis under paragraph (a) above identifies potential for ice accretion due 
to design features, the applicant should conduct an analysis to review the service 
experience of the comparable Engine design(s) in order to identify any evidence 
indicating susceptibility to ice crystal/mixed phase accretion. 
The applicant may demonstrate that the identified potential susceptibility to ice accretion 
is acceptable based on the good service experience demonstrated on comparable Engine 
design. Good service experience means the absence of any event involving Engine 
malfunction or unacceptable damage caused by ice crystal or mixed-phase conditions. To 
validate the credit from the comparable Engine design, the applicant should demonstrate 
that the design feature on the new design is similar in all pertinent aspects.  
When the comparable Engine design has experienced field events determined to have 
been caused by mixed-phase or ice crystal icing conditions, the analysis should show that 
measures have been taken on the new design to address these field events and result in 
acceptable Engine operation. Acceptable operation includes the absence of rollback, 
rundown, stall, flameout, and unacceptable compressor blade damage.  
(c) 
Novel Design Features. Where the analysis under paragraph (a) above identifies potential 
for ice accretion due to novel design features for which a comparative analysis cannot be 
performed, additional tests should be made to establish satisfactory operation. 
(4) 
Ice Ingestion 
(a) 
Intent of Ice Slab Ingestion Test  
The intent of the ice slab ingestion test required by CS-E 780(f) is to demonstrate 
tolerance to ice ingestion from ice shedding from nacelle surfaces. In addition, it also 
establishes limits for ice released from other aircraft surfaces in the frame of CS-23 or CS-
25 certification.  
The minimum ice slab dimensions for the ice slab ingestion test are provided in Table 3 
below. The dimensions are related to Engine size (defined by inlet highlight area), based 
on service experience. The applicant should determine the ice slab dimensions by linear 
interpolation between the values of Table 3, based on the actual Engine’s inlet highlight 
area. 
Table 3 — Minimum ice slab dimensions based on Engine inlet size 
Engine Inlet Highlight 
Area (inch²/m²) 
Thickness (inch/mm) 
Width (inch/cm) 
Length (inch/cm) 
0/0 
0.25/6.35 
0/0 
3.6/9.144 
