 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 109 of 262 
 
AMC E 525 Continued rotation 
(1) 
Continued rotation can be either due to windmilling or due to mechanical effects such as clutch 
drag in the case of a multi-engined rotorcraft. Compliance with this specification may be 
established by test or analysis and should take into account the conditions imposed on the 
Engine by a typical aircraft installation. 
(2) 
The conditions imposed on the Engine after in flight shutdown and their maximum duration 
should include consideration of all expected aircraft applications for the Engine, e.g. rotorcraft, 
turbopropeller, subsonic aircraft and supersonic aircraft. 
(3) 
Conditions that should be considered and addressed, if determined to be applicable, should 
include, but are not limited to, those identified below: 
— Complete loss of Engine oil,  
— Rotor unbalance resulting from blade loss and subsequent rotor damage.  
Consideration should be given to extended periods of continued rotation under these 
conditions in conjunction with the assumed flight envelope with one Engine shut down, 
including, where applicable, supersonic and supersonic to subsonic transition flight conditions.  
(4) 
The conditions imposed at the Engine-to-aircraft interface as a result of the rotor unbalance 
and rotational speed associated with continued rotation of an Engine following an Engine blade 
loss and subsequent rotor damage should be determined by analysis or test or both by the 
applicant as required by CS-E 520(c)(2), covering the entire flight envelope, and be provided in 
the installation documents required by CS-E 20. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 540 Strike and Ingestion of Foreign Matter 
(See AMC E 540) 
(a) 
The Engine must be designed so that the strike and ingestion of foreign matter that is likely to 
affect only one Engine in any one flight will not cause any Hazardous Engine Effects as defined 
in CS-E 510(g), except that events with a probability of occurrence lower than Extremely Remote 
need not be considered.  
(b) 
The Engine must be designed so that the strike and ingestion of foreign matter that is likely to 
affect more than one Engine in any one flight will not preclude the continued safe flight and 
landing of the aircraft as a consequence of a Hazardous Engine Effect or an unacceptable 
(1) 
Immediate or subsequent loss of performance; 
(2) 
Deterioration of Engine handling characteristics; 
(3) 
Exceedence of any Engine operating limitation. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 540 Strike and ingestion of foreign matter 
(1) 
When complying with CS-E 540(a), the substantiation of the strike and ingestion effects of 
foreign objects such as cleaning cloths, hand tools, rivets, bolts and screws needs only to be 
carried out if these are likely to be more severe than those of the single large bird strike / 
ingestion. 
