 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 43 of 262 
 
involve review of the need for the repetition of certain tests and/or a revision of the 
method of quality control. 
(3) 
Welded Structures and Welded Components 
Fusion and resistance welds should be classified in accordance with the following:  
— Group 1 Those welds the Failure or leakage of which could hazard the aircraft.  
— Group 2 Highly stressed welds the Failure or leakage of which would not hazard the 
aircraft. 
— Group 3 All other welds.  
The necessary means of maintaining the required quality of all welded structures and 
components should be established. This may involve the verification of correct application of 
the approved preparatory and welding techniques, by destructive and non-destructive 
inspection of representative test specimens, at prescribed intervals during weld production, 
visual inspection of each weld produced, and pressure testing of welds, where applicable, etc.  
All welds should be subjected to a suitable crack-detection process at an appropriate stage. 
Additional crack-detection tests should be made after any subsequent heat treatment has been 
completed. 
When radiographic examination is called for, this should be continued until a satisfactory 
standard of quality has been established. Subsequent relaxation may be introduced in quantity 
production at the Engine constructor's discretion using a system acceptable to the Agency. 
The drawings of each welded structure or component should contain information sufficient to 
identify the relevant means of welding to be used and the quality control method either by 
detailing the necessary information or quoting the relevant documents.  
No significant change of welding technique should be made without the agreement of the 
Engine constructor and such agreement should involve review of the need for a revision of the 
method of quality control or even modification approval action. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 80  Equipment 
(See AMC E 80) 
(a) 
Equipment Drives and Mountings 
(1) 
Mountings and drives for all equipment installed on the Engine must be designed: 
(i) 
To permit safe operation of the Engine with the equipment fitted, and 
(ii) 
So that Failure of equipment will not result in further damage likely to produce a 
Hazardous Engine Effect. 
(2) 
Mountings and drives for equipment identified under CS-E 20(c) must be designed and 
located so as to minimise the possibility of defective equipment necessitating Engine 
shut-down as a result of:  
(i) 
Contamination or major loss of the Engine oil supply, or 
(ii) 
Engine malfunctioning through the application of excessive torque, loose parts 
falling into the Engine, flailing of the drives, etc. 
