 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART B — PISTON ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 66 of 262 
 
CS-E 230  De-Icing and Anti-Icing Precautions 
(a) 
The design of the Engine induction system must be such as to minimise the risk of ice formation 
adversely affecting the functioning of the Engine and, if necessary, must include provision for 
the use of a means for ice prevention 
(b) 
Where necessary, provision must be made for the fitting of an induction thermometer or ice 
indicator, as appropriate for the control of the particular system. 
CS-E 240  Ignition 
(a)  
All spark-ignition Engines shall comply with the following:  
(1) 
The Engine shall be equipped either with: - 
(i) 
a dual ignition system that has entirely independent magnetic and electrical 
circuits, including spark plugs; or 
(ii) 
an ignition system which will function with at least the equivalent reliability. 
(2) 
If the design of the ignition system includes redundancy: - 
(i) 
the maximum power reduction resulting from a loss of redundancy shall be 
declared in the appropriate manual(s); 
ii) 
provision shall be made to establish the serviceability of the ignition system; the 
associated procedures and required inspection intervals shall be specified in the 
appropriate manual(s). 
(b) 
All self-ignition Piston Engines shall comply with the following:  
(1)  
The Engine design and operating procedure must provide a continued ignition capability 
under the intended operating conditions established in compliance with CS-E 40(d). This 
must be substantiated, considering the fuel with the limiting ignition delay time or cetane 
number, by conducting appropriate tests or by providing other evidence. The ignition 
delay time or the cetane number of the fuel considered for the demonstration will be 
recorded in the Engine type certificate data sheet.  
(2)  
The Engine constructor must recommend an envelope of conditions for relighting in 
flight, and must substantiate it by conducting appropriate tests or by providing other 
evidence. The recommendation must state all of the conditions that are applicable, e.g. 
the altitude, airspeed, windmilling rotational speed, whether starter assistance is 
required, and the recommended drill. The possible effects of a low ambient temperature 
on the relight capability must be included in the development of the recommendation. 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
AMC E 240 Ignition 
The use of Special-Purpose Test Fuels for Aviation Compression-Ignition Engines per ASTM D8147 is 
recommended. 
[Amdt No: E/7] 
