 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 238 of 262 
 
In general, experience has shown that Failures of shafts occur at a rate in excess of Extremely 
Remote. Consequently, shaft systems should be designed to fail safe as required by CS-E 
850(a)(1). However, it is accepted under CS-E 850(a)(3) that, for conventional designs, this is 
not possible for all parts of a shaft system, but the use of this provision should be strictly limited. 
Two possible hazardous effects of shaft Failure should be particularly considered: a release of 
the complete fan or compressor moving forward and an over-speed of the turbine leading to 
disc burst. 
Industry experience with shaft Failures should be considered under CS-E 850(b)(2)(v). In 
particular, the following Failure modes have all led to shaft Failures in service:  
— Degradation of a bearing, leading to shaft orbiting and subsequent contact between the 
shaft and other rotating or static parts;  
— Blade Failure, resulting in an imbalance and rubbing of the shaft on other parts;  
— Corrosion inside the shaft;  
— Fuel flow instability in the Engine Control System inducing a resonance in the shaft;  
— An oil fire around the shaft;  
— Impingement of hot air on the shaft; 
— A bearing Failure;  
— An HCF Failure from a stress concentration feature;  
— A loss of lubrication of a spline.  
Further, features such as splines, oil feed holes, couplings, bearing tracks that are integral with 
the shaft and sealing fins should be shown to be well understood and conducive to well-
established and validated stressing techniques.  
When the assessment for compliance with CS-E 850(b)(2)(iii) is that a shaft Failure due to the 
environment can be discounted, the ability to inspect the critical section of a shaft at the defined 
intervals and the appropriateness of the inspection method should be taken into account. For 
example, the Failure of a section of a shaft, which could cause Hazardous Engine Effects, in an 
area which would make inspection of the critical section in accordance with the manual difficult, 
may not be acceptable.  
(4) 
Design Assessment 
(a) 
The following aspects should be included when assessing the causes and probabilities of 
a shaft Failure - 
(i) 
The potential for, and possible effects of, undetected material defects; 
(ii) 
The effects of manufacturing tolerances allowed by the design; 
(iii) 
Rubbing between any torque-loaded section of the shaft and adjacent surfaces 
(e.g. other shafts, oil seals, air seals) to the extent that significant over-heating or 
reduction in strength could occur; 
(iv) 
The effect on the shaft of a bearing Failure and the desirability of provision (e.g. by 
maintenance techniques and/or flight instrumentation) for the detection of an 
incipient bearing Failure. The possibility of isolating the bearing from the shaft and 
thus increasing the damage tolerance of the system should be considered; 
