 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 242 of 262 
 
(3) 
One cycle to the declared maximum reverse thrust conditions, from each of ten Engine 
rotational speeds in the forward thrust range (except Take-off rotational speed and 
idling), these speeds being such that the forward thrust range is divided into 
approximately equal increments. 
(4) 
One cycle to the Take-off maximum rotational speed from each of 15 speeds in the 
declared reverse thrust range, these speeds being such that the reverse thrust range is 
divided into approximately equal increments. 
(d) 
Where approval is sought for ground and in-flight use, in addition to the tests prescribed under 
CS-E 890(c), a test of at least 5 hours must be performed, as part of the tests of CS-E 740, at the 
maximum reverse thrust conditions declared for in-flight use divided into equal periods each 
not less than the maximum permitted for in-flight use and including at least 30 operations into 
reverse thrust.  
(e) 
(1) 
During the tests of CS-E 890(c) and (d), the time to complete each scheduled thrust 
operation must be recorded. 
(2) 
The power control lever movement into reverse thrust must be initiated from the 
conditions indicated in the schedule, reverse thrust being selected in accordance with the 
recommended procedure. Immediately the thrust reverser is indicated as being in the 
reverse thrust position, the power control lever must be moved from the minimum idling 
position with reverse thrust to the position appropriate to the maximum with reverse 
thrust in a time not greater than 1 second. During decelerations the power control lever 
must be moved from the position appropriate to the declared maximum with reverse 
thrust to the minimum idling position with reverse thrust in a time not greater than 1 
second. 
(f) 
After the completion of the tests specified in CS-E 890(c) and (d), the Engine and the thrust 
reverser must comply with the specifications of CS-E 740(i).  
(g) 
Engine tests must be performed as required under CS-E 890(b), (c) and (d) unless it is agreed 
that alternative evidence may come from the Applicant’s experience on Engines of comparable 
size, design, construction, performance and handling characteristics, obtained during 
development, certification or operation, supported by analysis and tests as appropriate. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
AMC E 890 Thrust Reverser Tests 
(1) 
Interpretation of CS-E 890(g): 
In cases where the Engine test of CS-E 740 cannot be run with the standard thrust reverser, for 
example because it is not available despite the applicant’s efforts to obtain it, it is acceptable 
that a suitably representative test reverser is fitted for the endurance test. 
This addresses only the passive effects of the thrust reverser: cantilevered weight, the effect on 
vibrations and the loading of the Engine carcass, etc. Other evidence will be necessary to 
address the effects of the thrust reverser when functioning. 
It is also acceptable to use other Engine tests performed with a representative thrust reverser, 
such as cyclic tests performed for the ETOPS approval of the aircraft.  
(2) 
Representative control system. 
