 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 126 of 262 
 
Allowance should be made as follows for the permitted variations in material properties, critical 
dimensions and resulting natural frequencies of production components when interpreting test 
results or making analytical predictions: 
(a) 
Material allowable stresses 
The material property that is important in relation to the requirements of CS-E 650(f) is 
the endurance limit associated with specific combinations of mean stress and alternating 
stress, usually represented on a Goodman diagram. The influence on the endurance limit 
of manufacturing processes, the local geometrical features, and temperatures should 
also be taken into account. 
(b) 
Stress margins 
CS-E 650(f) requires suitable stress margins for each part evaluated, usually represented 
by the stress margins at the critical or limiting locations. The stress margin is the 
difference between the material allowable at a particular location and the measured 
vibratory stress at that location. The criteria for stress margin suitability should account 
for the variability in design, operation (including the effects due to icing, rain and hail 
conditions, consistent with the corresponding certification test evidence) and other 
mitigating factors identified during the certification test. 
(c) 
Modal response 
The total vibratory stress at any given location is the sum of the resonant stresses 
associated with all active and concurrent normal modes, plus any other vibratory stresses 
that occur at that particular rotational speed. Due to variability in properties (material 
and geometry) the frequencies and separation of the modes may be different from blade 
to blade (or other component). The applicant should consider the stress amplitudes that 
occur within permitted blade-to-blade variations of natural frequency. For example, if for 
a particular blade design the natural frequency (fn) range is fn ± 2.5 %, then the combined 
amplitudes within this range should be considered. 
Where there is potential for more than one mode to be excited at the same time/speed, 
the overall amplitude will be a combination of contributions from each individual 
response. The combined stress is typically calculated by breaking down the vibratory 
stress of each mode into its stress components and then combining the modal 
contributions in proportion to the individual measured responses to obtain the overall 
principal or equivalent vibratory stresses. 
(10) Dwell Testing 
The applicant should determine all significant responses within the operating conditions 
prescribed in CS-E 650 and allow sufficient time for any associated resonant modes to respond. 
This is usually accomplished during slow acceleration and deceleration speed sweeps covering 
the range of required speeds.  
If any significant response is found, then the relevant components should be subjected to 
sufficient cycles of vibration close to, and/or on, the response peak to demonstrate compliance 
with CS-E 650(f). This dwell testing would normally be incorporated into the incremental periods 
of the CS-E 740 Endurance Test as required by CS-E 740(g)(1).Components subjected to such 
dwell testing should subsequently also meet the strip inspection requirements of CS-E 740(i). 
(11) Transient Response 
