 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 206 of 262 
 
water requires nearly 40 g/m3 to compensate for the higher air density (refer 
to Figure A1 in Appendix A of CS-E).  
(B)  
Atmospheric parameters  
In respect of air temperature and other atmospheric parameters, the 
appropriate ISA data may be assumed when adjusting concentrations of rain 
and hail.  
(C)  
Scoop factor  
The appropriate rain and hail concentration amplification due to the scoop 
factor effect should be applied to further increase the quantities of rain and 
hail for the ground-level tests. This necessitates having knowledge of the 
inlet diffusing flow field throughout the Engine Power/Thrust range and 
flight envelope.  
(D)  
Engine rotational speeds  
The low rotor speed for the ground-level test should be no greater than the 
altitude critical point condition. This is particularly important for turbofan 
Engines since the rotational speed determines the rain and hail centrifuging 
effects which prevent some of the rain and hail from reaching the Engine 
core. The rain and hail concentrations may be adjusted to compensate for 
any necessary deviation from critical point rotational speeds.  
(E) 
Variable systems 
All variable systems, such as Engine bleeds, whose position can affect the 
Engine operation in rain and hail, should be set in the position associated 
with the critical point.  
(F)  
Engine power extraction  
It should be shown by analysis or test that sufficient margin exists for the 
extraction of the representative electrical or shaft power loads and service 
air bleeds.  
(G)  
Thermodynamic cycle differences  
There may be thermodynamic cycle differences between the test point and 
the critical point which affect the operability of the Engine. There should be 
compensation for these cycle differences, or it should be shown that these 
differences provide additional conservatism.  
(H) 
Enthalpy of water 
Rain and hail concentrations may be adjusted to ensure that the heat 
extraction resulting from their ingestion is the same as the critical point. If 
the ingestion of liquid water droplets is accepted (see paragraph 5(d) for 
compliance alternatives) for critical hail point testing, then the water 
concentration should at least be increased to compensate for the heat of 
fusion of ice.  
(I)  
Rain droplet break-up  
In the ground-level test environment, forces applied to accelerate the 
simulated rain droplets to flight speed, as well as shear forces between the 
droplets and the Engine airflow, are apt to break up the droplets. This break-
