 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 181 of 262 
 
(under CS-E 20(d)). It would then finally be the responsibility of the aircraft manufacturer 
to show that the Engine tests would still be valid for the particular air intake and Propeller, 
taking into account: 
—  distortion of the airflow and partial blockage of the air intake as a result of, for 
example, incidence or ice formation on the air intake and Propeller; 
—  the shedding into the Engine of air intake and Propeller ice of a size greater than 
the Engine is able to ingest; 
—  the icing of any Engine sensing devices or other subsidiary air intakes or equipment 
contained within the Engine air intake; and 
—  the time required to bring the protective system into full operation. 
Apart from tests carried out under paragraph (6) of this AMC, the icing tests should be 
carried out with all ice protection systems (IPS) operating. When dispatch is to be 
permitted with some ice protection systems inoperative, then the tests should address 
all configurations approved for aircraft dispatch. 
CS-E 780(b) requires that Engine bleeds and mechanical power offtakes permitted during 
icing conditions be set at the level assumed to be the most critical, or their effect must 
be simulated by other acceptable means. If it is not possible to establish clearly which 
test configuration is most critical, the test should be repeated, if necessary, in order to 
ensure satisfactory operation in all permitted configurations. 
(1.4) Test Configuration — Facility 
The tests may be completed with adequately simulated icing conditions in an altitude test 
facility capable of representing flight conditions, in flight, or under non-altitude test 
conditions. 
(1.5) Flight Testing 
Flight testing is an acceptable method of demonstrating Engine operation in icing 
conditions. Under these conditions, two important flight testing considerations are the 
measurement of ambient meteorological data and the ability to correlate the measured 
Engine performance to the most critical icing point.  
In practice, it may not be feasible to test the Engine in flight under natural icing 
conditions. However, testing in flight with simulated icing conditions could be possible 
and is not excluded. In this case, the applicant should define an acceptable means to 
establish and control the icing conditions. 
(1.6) Applicable Atmospheric Icing Conditions 
Due to the potential for inadvertent icing condition encounters, the applicable 
atmospheric icing conditions always include the SLW conditions defined in CS-Definitions 
Amendment 2 under ‘Icing Atmospheric Conditions’, even for aircraft not approved for 
flight in icing conditions. The additional conditions to be addressed are dependent on the 
conditions applicable to the air intake system of the aircraft on which the Engine is to be 
installed. These conditions may include  ice crystal icing conditions, supercooled large 
drop icing conditions, and falling and blowing snow conditions.  
The test altitude need not exceed any limitations proposed for aircraft approval, provided 
that a suitable altitude margin is demonstrated, and the altitude limitation is reflected in 
the manuals containing instructions for installing and operating the Engine. 
