 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 33 of 262 
 
(h) 
Maximum indicated oil temperature for: 
— Take-off conditions.  
— Maximum Continuous conditions.  
— Contingency conditions.  
— Transient conditions and associated time limitation(s). 
(i) 
Minimum indicated oil temperature for starting. 
(j) 
Minimum indicated oil temperature for acceleration from idle. 
(k) 
Minimum oil pressure for completion of flight at Maximum Continuous conditions. 
(l) 
Maximum normal oil pressure at Maximum Continuous conditions. 
(m) 
Use of compressor bleed air. 
(n) 
Maximum Power Turbine speed for Autorotation (if applicable). 
(o) 
Maximum Power Turbine torque and maximum rpm at which use of maximum torque is 
approved. 
(p) 
Maximum Over-torque transient and time limit. 
(q) 
Maximum Over-speed transient(s) and time limit(s) for each applicable operating 
condition. 
(r) 
Maximum Over-temperature transient and time limit. 
(s) 
Maximum refrigerant flow rate (if applicable). 
(t) 
Maximum reverse thrust conditions and time limitations (including use in flight if 
applicable). 
(u) 
Maximum rpm for application of Propeller brake (if applicable.) 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 50 Engine Control System 
(See AMC E 50, AMC 20-1, AMC 20-3, AMC 20-115) 
(a) 
Engine Control System Operation. It must be substantiated by tests, analysis or a combination 
thereof that the Engine Control System performs the intended functions in a manner which -  
(1) 
Enables selected values of relevant control parameters to be maintained and the Engine 
kept within the approved operating limits over changing atmospheric conditions in the 
declared flight envelope. 
(2) 
Complies with the operability specifications of CS-E 390, CS-E 500(a) and CS-E 745, as 
appropriate, under all likely system inputs and allowable Engine power or thrust 
demands, unless it can be demonstrated that this is not required for non-dispatchable 
specific Control Modes in the intended application. In such cases, the Engine approval 
will be endorsed accordingly.  
(3) 
Allows modulation of Engine power or thrust with adequate sensitivity and accuracy over 
the declared range of Engine operating conditions, and 
(4) 
Does not create unacceptable thrust or power oscillations. 
