 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 53 of 262 
 
AMC E 130  Fire Protection 
(1) 
Definitions 
(a) 
Drain and Vent Systems: Components which are used to convey unused or unwanted 
quantities of flammable fluid or vapour away from the Engine. 
(b) 
External Lines, Fittings and Other Components: Engine parts conveying flammable fluids 
and which are external to the main Engine casings, frames and other major structure. 
These parts include, but are not limited to, fuel or oil tubes, accessory gearbox, pumps, 
heat exchangers, valves and Engine fuel control units. 
(c) 
Fire Hazard: 
(1) 
The unintentional release or collection of a hazardous quantity of flammable fluid, 
vapour or other materials; or 
(2) 
a Failure or malfunction which results in an unintentional ignition source within a 
fire zone; or 
(3) 
the potential for a Hazardous Engine Effect as the result of exposure to a fire. 
(d) 
Fire-resistant, Fireproof: the definitions of "Fire-resistant" and "Fireproof" are given in 
CS-Definitions; they imply that the functioning of the part under fire condition should not 
hazard the aircraft.  
(e) 
Hazardous quantity: An amount of fluid, vapour or other material which could sustain a 
fire of sufficient time and severity to create damage potentially leading to a Hazardous 
Engine Effect. In the absence of a more suitable determination of a hazardous quantity 
of flammable fluid, this can be assumed to be 0.25 litre or more of fuel (or a quantity of 
flammable material of equivalent heat content). 
(2) 
General 
(a) 
Intent 
The intent of CS-E 130 is to give assurance that the design, materials and construction 
techniques utilised will minimise the probability of the occurrence, the consequences and 
the spread of fire.  
(b) 
Objectives 
With respect to the above intent, the primary objectives are to (1) contain, isolate and 
withstand a fire or prevent any sources of flammable material or air from feeding an 
existing fire and (2) increase the probability that the Engine Control System and 
accessories will permit a safe shutdown of the Engine or feathering of the Propeller (if 
the Propeller control system is part of the Engine design) and subsequently maintain that 
condition.  
(c) 
Determination of level of fire protection 
CS-E 130(b) requires that all flammable fluid conveying parts or components be at least 
Fire-Resistant, whereas CS-E 130(c) requires flammable fluid tanks and associated shutoff 
means to be Fireproof. It should then be determined which level of fire protection should 
be shown for each component requiring a fire protection evaluation.  
The 5-minute exposure which is associated with a “Fire-Resistant” status provides a 
reasonable time period for the flight crew to recognise a fire condition, shut down the 
