 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 240 of 262 
 
(3) 
On conclusion of the tests, the stripped condition of the Engine must be satisfactory for 
continued running. (See AMC E 870(a)(3)) 
(b) 
Test Conditions 
(1) 
A 15-minute period at Maximum Exhaust Gas Over-temperature must be run with each 
spool of the Engine which could be significant to the test, at the maximum speed to be 
approved (excluding the Maximum Engine Over-speed (20 Second)). 
(2) 
Where desired, the test may be made up of separate runs giving a total time of 
15 minutes, the time of each individual run being no less than 2½-minutes. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
AMC E 870(a)(3) Exhaust Gas Over-temperature Test 
In order to comply with CS-E 870(a)(3), it should be shown that an over-temperature event does not 
compromise the ability of the Engine to reach its Rated 30-Second/2-Minute OEI Power. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 880 Tests with Refrigerant Injection for Take-Off and/or 2½-
Minute OEI Power 
(a) 
Engines for Rotorcraft. The variation of the tests prescribed in this subpart E when using 
refrigerant injection must be agreed in consultation with the Agency.  
(b) 
Engines for Aeroplanes. Refrigerant Injection Used to Increase ISA Take-off and/or 2½-Minute 
OEI Performance. The following variations to the tests prescribed in this subpart E must be 
made:  
(1) 
Calibration Tests. (See CS-E 730). Add a calibration with refrigerant injection to 
demonstrate that the predicted power/thrust output will be achieved at the conditions 
demanding maximum refrigerant flow for each rating. This additional calibration may be 
made on a separate Engine if desired.  
(2) 
Endurance Test (See CS-E 740(c)). Run all normal Take-off periods (and/or 2½-Minute OEI 
if applicable) of Part 1 of each of the stages with refrigerant injection to achieve a mean 
refrigerant flow rate of at least 50% of the maximum, whilst maintaining at least the 
minimum declared power/thrust output and maximum declared turbine entry 
temperature.  
(3) 
Accelerations (See CS-E 740(c) and (d)). All the appropriate accelerations of Part 1 of each 
of the stages must be made with refrigerant injection selected.  
(4) 
Idle conditions used for power orthrust response (See CS-E 745). The idle conditions 
appropriate to the use of maximum refrigerant injection flow, as well as without, must 
be established.  
(5) 
Over-speed Test (See CS-E 830). Two Over-speeds will need to be declared if the Take-off 
maximum rotational speed with refrigerant injection differs from the Take-off maximum 
rotational speed without refrigerant injection. Only an Over-speed test with refrigerant 
injection need be run if all the critical conditions are more severe with refrigerant 
injection, than without. The 15-minute Over-speed test with refrigerant injection need 
