 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 15 of 262 
 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
AMC General 
In addition to the acceptable means of compliance in Book 2 of these Certification Specifications, AMC-
20 may also provide acceptable means of compliance to the specifications in Book 1 of this CS-E. 
CS-E 10  Applicability 
(a) 
This CS-E contains airworthiness specifications for the issue of type certificates, and changes to 
those certificates, for Engines, in accordance with Part 21. 
(b) 
CS-E contains the specifications for the approval for use of the Engine with a thrust reverser, if 
fitted. If compliance is shown, the defined thrust reverser approved for use will be noted in the 
Engine certification documentation. Otherwise, the documentation will be endorsed to indicate 
that the use of a thrust reverser is prohibited. 
(c) 
The specifications of Subparts A, B and C apply to Piston Engines. Any necessary variations of 
the specifications of Subparts B and C for Piston Engines intended for use in rotorcraft will be 
decided in accordance with point 21.B.75 of Part 21. 
(d) 
The specifications of subparts A, D, E and F apply to Turbine Engines. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No.: E/7] 
AMC E 10(b)  Thrust Reversers 
If a thrust reverser is declared as being part of the Engine type design under CS-E 20(a), it should 
comply with all appropriate CS-E specifications and therefore be certificated as part of the Engine. 
However, the thrust reverser itself is, in addition, required to comply with the relevant aircraft 
specifications during the certification of the aircraft.  
The intent of CS-E specifications is to give sufficient confidence that the use of the thrust reverser, 
where this is permitted, has no detrimental effects on the Engine itself, such as flutter in a fan, 
excessive vibrations or loads induced in the Engine carcass, etc. 
This is addressed mainly under CS-E 500, CS-E 650, and CS-E 890. 
If the Engine is intended to be used with a thrust reverser which is not included in the Engine type 
design, these CS-E specifications should nevertheless be addressed for approval of the use of the 
Engine with this thrust reverser. If this is not done, then the Engine certification documentation is 
endorsed so that the use of the thrust reverser is prohibited. 
If CS-E is complied with by the Engine / thrust reverser combination, the Engine data sheet would 
contain a note to the effect that the Engine may be used with the specified thrust reverser. 
(a)  
If a thrust reverser is declared as being part of the Engine type design under CS-E 20(a), it must 
comply with all appropriate CS-E specifications and therefore be certificated as part of the 
Engine. 
(b)  
If the Engine is intended to be used with a thrust reverser which is not included in the Engine 
type design, these CS-E specifications must nevertheless be addressed for the approval of the 
use of the Engine with a thrust reverser. The thrust reverser definition must then be included 
in the Manuals required by CS-E 20(d). This may be a reference to the specific thrust reverser 
