 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 123 of 262 
 
these locations are not suitable or accessible for that purpose, stresses may be measured 
nearby provided that the relationships between the stresses at these locations and those 
at critical locations are known and predictable. To identify the accessible locations that 
best represent the critical stresses, knowledge of each natural mode and associated 
stress distributions is required, which may be gained from a combination of experience, 
analyses, or testing. This investigation is usually conducted before the certification test. 
Time-of-arrival sensors, such as optical sensors or light probes, may prove convenient 
alternatives to strain gauges provided they are properly calibrated and their capabilities 
are clearly understood. The most common application for time-of-arrival sensors is to 
estimate blade tip displacements, which may then be converted to stresses at specific 
blade locations. Converting measured displacements or gauge strains to vibratory 
stresses requires a detailed knowledge of the blade normal mode frequencies, mode 
shapes, modal stress/strain distributions and associated tip displacements. This 
conversion should be shown to be sufficiently accurate or at least conservative. Time-of-
arrival data for vibratory modes where measured displacements have low sensitivity in 
relation to stresses in critical areas should not be used in order to avoid excessive 
uncertainty in endurance limit calculations. 
(d) 
Instrumentation survivability 
Where the Engine operates at such high rotor speeds and gas path temperatures that 
test instrumentation can only survive the environment for short periods of time, 
validated analysis would be expected to complete the substantiation. The loss of 
instrumentation should be minimal and the associated analysis should be primarily based 
on the surviving instrumentation data. 
(e) 
Engine modifications 
During testing, the Engine may be modified or adjusted in an effort to achieve the desired 
physical and corrected speeds, or any other test conditions. Any alterations made to the 
Engine for these purposes should be evaluated to show that their effects are not 
detrimental or do not compromise the intent of the test and the test results. 
(5) 
Altitude, Temperature and Environmental Effects 
CS-E 650(a) requires that conditions throughout the declared flight envelope are evaluated 
when establishing that the dynamic behaviour of components and systems is acceptable. These 
conditions should include icing (CS-E 780) and rain and hail (CS-E 790) under which sustained 
Engine operation is expected to occur and which may lead to high rotor imbalance, severe rotor-
case interaction, higher vibratory amplitudes, or flutter. When showing compliance with CS-E 
650, the applicant may take into account the tests performed to show compliance with CS-E 
780 and CS-E 790 to characterise the Engine vibration behaviour. 
Changes in operating conditions associated with ambient temperature, altitude and 
environmental variations affect Engine performance, airflow characteristics and rotor 
imbalance. This can have a significant effect on aerodynamic and mechanical forcing and 
damping, which, in turn, affects the vibratory response and behaviour of certain components. 
Appropriate justification should be provided by the applicant that the worst operating 
conditions in the declared flight envelope have been fully explored. 
Engine tests may be conducted by means of flight test or in altitude facilities or in other facilities 
such that the effects of altitude and temperature are properly represented and can be 
evaluated. Suitable test equipment and instrumentation should be used for each situation. The 
dependency of certain vibratory phenomena on temperature and altitude can be characterised 
