 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 138 of 262 
 
CS-E 740 Endurance Tests 
(a) 
The specifications of CS-E 740 must be varied and supplemented as necessary to comply with 
CS-E 690(a), CS-E 750 and CS-E 890. 
(b) 
(1) 
The test must be performed in the order defined in the appropriate schedule (either as 
prescribed in paragraphs (c)(1), (2) and (3) below, or as defined by the applicant in a test 
plan when paragraph (c)(4) below is used), and in suitable non-stop stages. An alternative 
schedule may be used if it is agreed to be at least as severe. In the event of a stop 
occurring during any stage, the stage must be repeated unless it is considered to be 
unnecessary. The complete test may need to be repeated if an excessive number of stops 
occur. 
(2) 
The time taken in changing power and/or thrust settings during the entire test must not 
be deducted from the prescribed periods at the higher settings. 
(3) 
Throughout each stage of the endurance test, the rotational speed must be maintained 
at, or within agreed limits of, the declared value appropriate to a particular condition. 
The determination of the necessary rotational speed tolerance will take account of the 
Engine speed, test equipment and any other relevant factors (see also CS-E 740(f)(1)). 
(4) 
On turbo-propeller Engines, a representative flight Propeller must be fitted. 
(5) 
The Engine must be subjected to an agreed extent of pre-assembly inspection, and a 
record must be made of the dimensions that are liable to change by reason of wear, 
distortion and creep. A record must also be made of the calibrations and settings of 
separately functioning Engine components and equipment (e.g. the control system, 
pumps, actuators, valves). 
(6)  
The thrust or power of the Engine achieved throughout the endurance test must be at 
least 100 % of the value associated with the particular Engine rating being tested, in order 
to substantiate the thrust or power ratings established under CS-E 40. 
(c) 
Schedules 
(1) 
Schedule for Standard Ratings (Take-off and Maximum Continuous) 
25 6-hour stages, each stage comprising: 
Part 1 1 hour of alternate 5-minute periods at Take-off Power or Thrust and minimum 
ground idle, or, for rotorcraft Engines, minimum test bed idle.  
Part 2 
(A) 
Stages 1 to 15, each of 30 minutes duration, at Maximum Continuous Power 
or Thrust.  
(B) 
Stages 16 to 25, each of 30 minutes duration, at Take-off Power or Thrust. 
For Engines for Aeroplanes. Where Engine rotational speeds between 
Maximum Continuous and Take-off may be used in service, e.g. for reduced 
thrust take-off or due to variations in the ambient temperature, and these 
speeds would not be adequately covered by other Parts of the endurance 
test, then the following Part 2 must be substituted:  
(C) 
Stages 1 to 10, each of 30 minutes duration at Maximum Continuous Power 
or Thrust.  
(D) 
Stages 11 to 15, each of 30 minutes duration at Take-off Power or Thrust. 
