 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 30 of 262 
 
(e) 
The Engine’s rated Powers/Thrusts and any operating limitations established under this CS-E 40 
which must be respected by the crew of an aircraft must be listed in the Engine type certificate 
data sheet specified in point 21.A.41 of Part 21. The Engine type certificate data sheet must also 
identify, or make reference to, all other information found necessary for the safe operation of 
the Engine.  
(f) 
The ratings established under this CS-E 40 must be defined for the lowest Power/Thrust that all 
Engines of the same type may be expected to produce under the conditions used to determine 
these ratings. The minimum testing must be defined, together with associated conditions, 
necessary for ensuring that the Engines will comply with this objective. 
(g) 
In determining the Engine performance and operating limitations, the overall limits of accuracy 
of the Engine Control System and of the necessary instrumentation as defined in CS-E 60(b) 
must be taken into account. 
(h) 
For Piston Engines, each declared rating must be defined in terms of the power produced at a 
given power setting and Engine rotational speed. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
[Amdt No: E/7] 
AMC E 40  Ratings 
The thrust and / or power ratings to be approved should be adequately justified by the applicant, using 
as appropriate the results of the calibration tests (CS-E 350 or CS-E 730) and the values substantiated 
by the endurance test (CS-E 440 or CS-E 740) or other means. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 40(b)(3) and (b)(4) 30-Second OEI, 2-Minute OEI and 30-
minute Power Ratings 
(1) 
The 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI Power ratings are two separate ratings. However, they are 
associated in a combined structure of 2.5 minutes duration. 
(2) 
The 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI ratings are optional ratings that may be specifically requested 
by the applicant, and they are intended for use only for continuation of the one-flight operation 
after the Failure of one Engine in multi-engine Rotorcraft during take-off, climb or landing. The 
30-Second OEI Power rating provides a short burst of power to complete the take-off or to effect 
a rejected take-off, should an Engine Failure occur at the critical decision point, so that the 
Rotorcraft can lift clear of any obstruction in the flight path and climb out or, alternatively, to 
reject the take-off. Similarly, this rating also provides adequate power for the Rotorcraft to 
execute a safe landing, or a baulked landing if an Engine fails at any point down to and including 
the landing decision point. The 2-Minute OEI Power rating provides a further period of increased 
power to enable the Rotorcraft to complete the climb out from take-off or baulked landing to 
safe altitude and airspeed. 
(3) 
While the 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI Power ratings were originally conceived as high power 
ratings, using the available margins in the Engine design, and followed by a mandatory Engine 
overhaul, the experience has shown that the manufacturers provide engines with differing 
capabilities and different margins. Therefore some flexibility is possible in defining the 
