 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 144 of 262 
 
appropriate period of the test for establishing the TCDS MTO- and MCT-
declared core speed limits in accordance with CS-E 740(f).  
(2) 
Fan Speed Operating Limits Demonstration  
The MTO fan physical speed operating limit must be demonstrated for a 
minimum of 30 minutes. The MCT fan physical speed operating limit must 
be demonstrated for a minimum of 90 minutes. Both cases must be 
demonstrated in conjunction with at least the level of corresponding 
temperature, as identified in the CPA. 
If MTO and MCT have the same declared fan speed operating limit, then 
120 minutes must be demonstrated.  
Additional time may be necessary if the applicant’s CPA indicates that 
additional time at MTO or MCT physical fan speed operating limit could 
occur in service within the declared operating envelope. In conjunction with 
meeting minimum severity requirements, this demonstration comprises the 
appropriate period of the test for establishing the TCDS MTO- and MCT-
declared fan speed limits in accordance with CS-E 740(f).  
(3) 
Turbine Exhaust Gas Temperature (EGT) Operating Limits Demonstration  
The conditions necessary to demonstrate the MTO exhaust gas temperature 
(EGT) operating limit must be continuously run for 10 minutes in conjunction 
with at least the level of corresponding rotor speeds as identified in the CPA. 
Three snap/burst accelerations (throttle move in 1 second or shorter) from 
idle to the MTO EGT operating limit (hold operating limit for a duration of 
90 seconds each) must also be run. The conditions necessary to demonstrate 
the MCT EGT operating limit must be continuously run for 90 minutes in 
conjunction with at least the level of corresponding rotor speeds as 
identified in the CPA. 
Additional time at any or all these conditions may be necessary if the 
applicant’s CPA indicates that additional time at the EGT operating limit may 
occur in service.  
EGT operating limits demonstration for alternate endurance testing also 
requires the equivalent severity to the intent of the specifications in CS-
E 740(a), (b) and (c)(1) to be demonstrated by running significant time and 
cycles at or above the maximum critical component temperature, as 
identified in the CPA as per CS-E 740(c)(4)(iii), and must be performed when 
showing compliance with CS-E 740(c)(4)(v).  
Additional testing required to show compliance with CS-E 740(c)(4)(v) must 
be addressed in accordance with CS-E 740(c)(4)(vi).  
(v) 
Test Severity Demonstration Over Extended Operating Periods 
Limiting temperature for MTO and MCT must be demonstrated for extended 
periods to achieve the equivalent cumulative damage for the critical component 
as would be achieved by the conditions prescribed in CS-E 740(c)(1) (also referred 
to as the ‘reference severity’; see also AMC E 740(c)(4), Section 5(b)).  
The limiting temperature is either the turbine gas path temperature operating limit 
or the gas path temperature that corresponds to the maximum critical component 
temperature where this has been established for both a production Engine and the 
