 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 90 of 262 
 
— Mis-installation of, or Failure to refit, O-rings,  
— Servicing with incorrect fluids,  
— Failure to install, omitting to torque, under-torquing, or over-torquing nuts.  
Improper maintenance on parts such as discs, hubs, and spacers has led to Failures 
resulting in Hazardous Engine Effects. Examples of this which have occurred in service are 
overlooking existing cracks or damage during inspection and Failure to apply or incorrect 
application of protective coatings (e.g. anti-gallant, anti-corrosive).  
In showing compliance with CS-E 510(e)(2), it is expected that, wherever specific Failure 
rates rely on special or unique maintenance checks for protective devices, those should 
be explicitly stated in the analysis.  
(4) 
Analytical techniques. 
This paragraph describes various techniques for performing a safety analysis. Other comparable 
techniques exist and may be proposed by an applicant. Variations and/or combinations of these 
techniques are also acceptable. For derivative engines, it is acceptable to limit the scope of the 
analysis to modified components or operating conditions and their effects on the rest of the 
Engine. Early agreement between the applicant and the Agency should be reached on the scope 
and methods of assessment to be used.  
Various methods for assessing the causes, severity levels, and likelihood of potential Failure 
conditions are available to support experienced engineering judgement. The various types of 
analyses are based on either inductive or deductive approaches. Brief descriptions of typical 
methods are provided below. More detailed descriptions of analytical techniques may be found 
in the documents referenced in paragraph (5) of this AMC. 
— Failure Modes and Effects Analysis. This is a structured, inductive, bottom-up analysis 
which is used to evaluate the effects on the Engine of each possible element or 
component Failure. When properly formatted, it will aid in identifying latent Failures 
and the possible causes of each Failure mode.  
— Fault tree or Dependence Diagram (Reliability Block Diagram) Analyses. These are 
structured, deductive, top-down analyses which are used to identify the conditions, 
Failures, and events that would cause each defined Failure condition. They are graphical 
methods for identifying the logical relationship between each particular Failure 
condition and the primary element or component Failures, other events, or their 
combinations that can cause the Failure condition. A Fault Tree Analysis is Failure 
oriented, and is conducted from the perspective of which Failures should occur to cause 
a defined Failure condition. A Dependence Diagram Analysis is success-oriented, and is 
conducted from the perspective of which Failures should not occur to preclude a 
defined Failure condition.  
(5) 
Related documents. 
— AMC 25.1309 of CS-25, “System Design and Analysis”.  
— Taylor Young Limited, “Systematic Safety” by E Lloyd & W Tye  
— Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE)/EUROCAE, Document No. ARP4754A/EUROCAE 
ED-79A, Guidelines for Development of Civil Aircraft and Systems. 
— Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE), Document No. ARP 926A, "Fault/Failure Analysis 
Procedure". 
