 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 108 of 262 
 
(4) 
Validation of the Engine model static structure is achieved by a combination of Engine and 
component tests, which include structural tests on major load path components, or by analysis, 
or both. The adequacy of the Engine model to predict rotor critical speeds and forced response 
behaviour is verified by measuring Engine vibratory response when imbalances are added to 
the fan and other rotors (See CS-E 650). Vibration data is routinely monitored on a number of 
Engines during the engine development cycle, thereby providing a solid basis for model 
correlation.  
(5) 
Correlation of the model against the CS-E 810 blade loss Engine test is a demonstration that the 
model accurately represents: 
— initial blade release event loads,  
— any rundown resonant response behaviour,  
— frequencies,  
— Failure sequences, and  
— general Engine movements and displacements, including interface features between 
Engine and aircraft. 
(6) 
To enable this correlation to be performed, instrumentation of the blade loss engine test should 
be used (e.g. use of high-speed cinema and video cameras, accelerometers, strain gauges, 
continuity wires, and shaft speed tachometers). This instrumentation should be capable of 
measuring loads on the engine attachment structure.  
(7) 
The aircraft and Engine manufacturers should mutually agree upon the definition of the model, 
based on test and experience.  
[Amdt No: E/2] 
[Amdt No: E/7] 
AMC E 520(d) Strength – Local Failures 
Local Failures of the Engine casing may include localised cracking. For any casing design that allows for 
residual crack growth:  
(a)  
it should be demonstrated that the condition of the casing, including the maximum predicted 
crack size, will not lead to a Hazardous Engine Effect;  
(b)  
if the Failure of the casing, for instance as the result of ultimate crack growth, could result in a 
Hazardous Engine Effect, then the part should be classified as a Critical Part in accordance with 
CS-E 510(a)(2) and be in compliance with the Integrity Specifications of CS-E 515. 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
CS-E 525 Continued Rotation 
(see AMC E 525) 
If any of the Engine’s main rotating systems will continue to rotate after the Engine is shutdown for 
any reason while in flight, and means to prevent that continued rotation, are not provided, any 
continued rotation during the maximum period of flight and in the flight conditions expected to occur 
with that Engine inoperative must not result in effects that would be unacceptable under CS-E 510. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
