 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 135 of 262 
 
AMC E 700 Excess Operating Conditions (Turbine Engines for 
Aeroplanes) 
(1) 
Case at VMO∗ (∗For light aeroplanes the speed VNE is normally used) 
The Engine should be run at the excess pressures and thrusts which would result from operation 
at VMO under the most critical ambient pressure and temperature conditions, with Maximum 
Continuous Power and/or Thrust selected.  
The duration of the test should be related to the likelihood of the conditions occurring and the 
frequency of the occurrence in respect of a representative type of aeroplane. If limitations are 
declared and provision made for the necessary instrumentation, the test conditions may be 
modified accordingly. 
On conclusion of the test, the Engine should be subjected to a strip examination and should not 
reveal features that could lead to a significant increase in the risk of Engine Failure. 
(2) 
Case at VD. 
The Engine should be run for 5 minutes (comprising five 1 minute runs or fewer longer runs of 
equal total duration) at the excess pressures and thrusts, which would result from operation at 
VD under the most critical ambient pressure and temperature conditions, with Maximum 
Continuous Power and/or Thrust selected, followed by the demonstration of ability of the 
Engine to complete a flight in which such circumstances have occurred. This latter 
demonstration may consist of running the Engine at typical cruising conditions for a period 
equal to the maximum likely flight time following such an incident on a representative type of 
aeroplane. The value should be established in consultation with the Agency. 
(3) 
Case of 'Throttle Slam'. 
The Engine should be rapidly accelerated from minimum flight idle conditions in simulation of 
throttle slam (i.e. opening the throttle as rapidly as is physically possible) and then run for two 
minutes to cover the excess conditions (e.g. rpm, pressure, thrust, temperature), which result 
from operating the Engine with the power control lever in the maximum forward position under 
the most critical ambient conditions likely to exist within the range of aerodrome altitudes for 
which performance is scheduled. If desired, the 2 minutes test may be made up of separate 
tests, each of not less than one-minute duration. At the end of the test the condition of the 
Engine should be such as to enable it to complete a flight in which such circumstances have 
occurred. This may be shown by demonstrating that the Engine will run satisfactorily at typical 
cruising conditions for a continuous period of 30 minutes (see also AMC E 500 paragraph 3).  
(4) 
When exceedence of an Engine operating limitation has occurred during the bird tests of CS-E 
800(c) or (d), it should be demonstrated in compliance with CS-E 700 that the value of the 
exceeded parameter which was reached during the testing has been adequately validated by 
other tests of CS-E or by specific additional test if needed. The maintenance actions associated 
with such exceedences for a similar in-service event should also be adequately validated and 
documented in the appropriate manuals. Compliance with CS-E 700 might include consideration 
either of a change in the finally certified limit so that the value achieved during the test would 
no longer be an exceedence, or of an approval of a transient under CS-E 820, CS-E 830 or CS-E 
870 as appropriate.  
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
