 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 244 of 262 
 
AMC E 910 Relighting In Flight 
(1)  
AMC 25.903(e)(2) contains guidance that can be used to establish the objectives of the 
demonstration of compliance of the Engine with CS-E 910. Active coordination between the 
Engine type-certificate applicant and the aircraft type-certificate applicant is recommended.  
(2)  
Either Engine altitude testing or Engine flight testing are considered to be acceptable means of 
demonstrating compliance. However, other appropriate tests or evidence can be proposed by 
the applicant.  
(3)  
The following specific threats should be considered in the demonstration of compliance:  
(a)  
Rapid relight after an in-flight Engine shutdown  
 If a functioning Engine is shut down for any reason and the pilot quickly initiates a restart 
command (after an initial delay of at least 5 seconds to simulate the pilot response time 
during an actual in-flight event), the Engine design, and in particular the Engine Control 
System, should not introduce any unnecessary delay in the Engine returning to the 
previous power or thrust setting.  
(b) 
Rotor-lock  
 The potential for rotor-lock and its impact on the capability of the Engine to relight in 
flight should be determined. Any assessment should be based upon conservative 
assumptions that include but are not limited to clearances (taking into account 
tolerances), the initial conditions, flight effects, thermal effects and the dwell time. All 
the Engine rotors should be considered.  
 If a demonstration through flight test is proposed, it should represent a set of 
conservative operating assumptions for the Engine in terms of rotor-lock, or it should be 
supplemented by an analysis that satisfactorily addresses the conservative operating 
assumptions. 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
CS-E 920 Over-temperature Test 
(See AMC E 920) 
(a) Each Engine must run for 5 minutes at maximum permissible rotational speed (rpm) with the 
turbine entry gas temperature at least 42 °C (75 °F) higher than the maximum rating's steady-state 
operating limit, excluding maximum values of rpm and gas temperature associated with the 30-second 
OEI and 2-minute OEI ratings. Following this run, the turbine assembly must be within serviceable 
limits. 
(b) In addition to the test requirements in paragraph (a), for Engines with 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI 
Power ratings, the Engine must be run for a period of 4 minutes at the maximum power-on rotor 
speed with the turbine entry gas temperature at least 19°C (35 °F) higher than the 30-Second OEI 
Power rating operating temperature limit. Following this test, the turbine assembly may exhibit 
distress beyond the limits for an over-temperature condition provided the Engine is shown by analysis 
or test or both to maintain the integrity of the turbine assembly. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
