 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 197 of 262 
 
The following terms are defined for the purpose of this AMC:  
Critical point(s)  
Operating conditions within the Engine flight envelope at 
which an Engine's operability margin is reduced to a minimum 
level. Operability margin includes compressor surge and stall 
margin, fuel control rundown margin, combustor flameout 
margin and instrumentation sensing errors.  
Flameout  
The total extinction of flame within the combustor, resulting in 
a rundown and, ultimately, a shutdown of the Engine.  
Hail  
Water in a solid granular state, either in its naturally occurring 
form or in a fabricated form, for the purpose of testing Engines.  
Hail water content (HWC) 
The concentration, in the air, of water in the form of hail, 
expressed in grams of hail per cubic metre of air.  
Rain  
Water in liquid droplet state, either in its naturally occurring 
form, or created artificially by discharging water from spray 
nozzles, for the purpose of testing Engines.  
Rain water content (RWC) 
The concentration, in the air, of water in the form of rain, 
expressed in grams of rain per cubic metre of air. 
Rundown 
The uncommanded reduction of Engine rotor speed that will 
result from the fuel control steady state operating line 
coinciding with the fuel control acceleration schedule. 
Scoop factor 
The ratio of nacelle inlet highlight area (Ah) to the area of the 
captured air stream tube (Ac) (Scoop factor = Ah/Ac). 
Stall 
An airflow breakdown at one or more compressor aerofoil 
stages. 
Surge 
The response of an entire Engine that is characterised by a 
significant airflow stoppage or reversal in the compression 
system.  
Sustained power or thrust loss A permanent reduction in power or thrust at the Engine's 
primary power/thrust set parameter (e.g., rotor speed, Engine 
pressure ratio, torque, shaft power). 
 
(2) 
Power-Loss and Instability Phenomena 
(a) 
General 
There have been multiple Engine power-loss and instability events, forced landings, and 
accidents attributed to turbine Engine malfunction in extreme conditions of rain or hail. 
Investigations have revealed that ambient concentrations of rain and hail can be 
amplified significantly through the Engine core at certain combinations of flight speed 
and Engine power/thrust condition. In some instances, the resulting increased amounts 
of ingested rain and hail have been sufficient to produce Engine anomalies such as 
surging, power loss and Engine flameout.  
(b) 
Meteorological Data 
Appendix A to CS-E defines the atmospheric conditions of rain and hail for the purpose of 
establishing certification test standards. Note that the water concentrations defined for 
