 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 81 of 262 
 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN AND 
CONSTRUCTION 
CS-E 500  Functioning 
(See AMC E 500) 
(a) 
The Engine must be free from dangerous surge and instability throughout its operating range 
of ambient and running conditions within the air intake pressure and temperature conditions 
declared by the constructor. 
(b) 
[Reserved] 
(c) 
All Engines must be equipped with an igniter system suitable for starting the Engine on the 
ground and in flight at all altitudes up to a declared altitude. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 500  Functioning - Control of Engines (Turbine Engines for 
Aeroplanes) 
It is normally acceptable that the control of Engines within their limitations may be achieved by 
manual, as opposed to automatic, means provided that - 
(1) 
The likely rate of change of Engine conditions makes manual control practicable, 
(2) 
Minimum thrust setting parameters for use during all critical flight phases (e.g. take-off or 
baulked landing) can be predetermined in a manner which will ensure that - 
(a) 
They are easily set-up, 
(b) 
The same instrument is used under all ambient conditions, 
(c) 
They will normally prevent any other limit being exceeded (though normal crew 
monitoring may be assumed to be adequate for detecting progressive slowly changing 
excesses which may result from Engine deterioration in service), 
(3) 
The Engine is shown to be safe in the event of inadvertent opening of the throttle to its 
maximum travel in an emergency situation (see also AMC E 700 paragraph 3). 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 510  Safety Analysis 
(See AMC E 510) 
(a) 
(1) 
An analysis of the Engine, including the control system, must be carried out in order to 
assess the likely consequence of all Failures that can reasonably be expected to occur. 
This analysis must take account of: 
(i) 
Aircraft-level devices and procedures assumed to be associated with a typical 
installation. Such assumptions must be stated in the analysis. 
(ii) 
Consequential secondary Failures and dormant Failures. 
