 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 209 of 262 
 
following the ingestion test, should be limited to 3 percent. Measured post-
ingestion power or thrust losses greater than 3 per cent at any value of the 
primary setting parameter, can only be accepted when supported by 
appropriate assessments of aircraft performance.  
(B)  
Power or thrust degradation  
A change in the Engine corrected thrust or power of up to 10 per cent from 
rated or pre-test levels when using the applicant's normal performance 
parameters (i.e., Exhaust Gas Temperature, High Rotor Speed, etc.), 
excluding the primary thrust or power setting parameter, is acceptable 
provided the criterion for sustained power or thrust loss is met.  
Note: Due to the adjustment of the hail water content (HWC) to account for the 
higher air density at sea level compared with the altitude flight conditions required 
by paragraph (5)(c)(i)(A) of this AMC, it is possible that the pressure altitude density 
effect on the HWC may result in ice accretion within the Engine that would not 
occur in flight. The amount of ice accretion within the Engine compressor will 
depend on the absolute HWC level, rather than the water-to-air ratio within the 
Engine.  
If an issue with ice accretion is revealed during the testing required by paragraph 
(5)(c)(iv) of this AMC with amplified HWC, the applicant may need to repeat the 
testing at the levels identified in Appendix A to CS-E to evaluate the true ice 
accretion threat.  
Alternatively, the applicant may elect to run an initial test at those levels identified 
in Appendix A to CS-E to demonstrate the capability of the Engine with respect to 
ice accretion before performing the operability test with a higher HWC.  
Irrespective of the effects of pressure altitude density, flight airspeed effects 
should still be applied to the Engine test simulation. 
(d) 
Other Compliance Alternatives 
Analysis may be used in lieu of, or in combination with, Engine testing to demonstrate 
compliance with the specifications. The analytical methods used should have a sufficient 
validation basis to justify the accuracy of the predictions or be shown to yield 
conservative results. The amount of validation (i.e. Engine test, rig test, experimental test, 
etc.) should be proportional to the complexity of the analytical methods used and to the 
criticality of the particular calculation to the prediction of Engine operability. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
