 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 184 of 262 
 
Engine bleed settings for the condition being analysed should be assumed 
to minimise the operability margin. The establishment of CPA points should 
consider those conditions where the minimum operability margin is 
expected. 
(iii) 
Core and Booster Ice Blockage.  
Ice accretion on internal Engine vanes from glaze ice accretions may affect 
airflow capacity and rematch of the Engine cycle. This should be considered 
in the CPA. At Engine powers/thrusts that can sustain flight, ice accretion 
should be reconciled through a demonstration of several ice build/shed 
cycles to demonstrate no adverse operating effects of either the ice builds 
or sheds. 
(2.2) Establishment of SLW Test Points for In-Flight Operation  
The test conditions outlined below are intended as a guide to establish the minimum 
testing necessary to comply with CS-E 780. These test points should be supplemented or, 
if applicable, replaced, by any test points identified by the CPA as applicable. 
The conditions of horizontal and vertical extent and water concentration defined below 
are somewhat more severe than those implied by the SLW Icing Conditions in CS-
Definitions Amendment 2 =. Encounters with icing conditions more severe that those 
defined are considered possible, and it is, therefore, appropriate to ensure that a margin 
is maintained.  
(a) 
Tests points to demonstrate icing capability at a power/thrust at or above that 
required for sustained flight  
One test point should be run to simulate each of the conditions of Table 1 at the 
Engine minimum power/thrust to maintain sustained flight in the intended 
installation. For turbofan Engines, a second point should be run at a higher 
power/thrust condition, if it is predicted to result in a higher energy of ice shed 
from the fan blades. If an acceptable means to predict the critical fan speed is not 
available, tests at 50 %, 75 % and 100 % of maximum continuous power/thrust 
should be run. 
The minimum duration of each test point should be determined by repetitions of 
either the cycle: 
(i) 
28 km horizontal extent in the LWC conditions of Table 1, Column (a), 
appropriate to the temperature, followed by 5 km in the LWC conditions of 
Table 1, Column (b), appropriate to the temperature, for a total duration of 
45 minutes, or 30 minutes if clear evidence of repeat build/shed cycles has 
been observed; 
or the cycle: 
(ii) 
6 km horizontal extent in the LWC conditions of Table 1, Column (a), 
appropriate to the temperature, followed by 5 km in the LWC conditions of 
Table 1, Column (b), appropriate to the temperature, for a total duration of 
20 minutes, or 10 minutes if clear evidence of repeat build/shed cycles has 
been observed.  
At the conclusion of each test point, the Engine should be run up to the 
maximum power/thrust corresponding to the test conditions, using a one 
second thrust/power lever movement, to demonstrate any effect of ice 
