 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 180 of 262 
 
Limited Engine damage should satisfy the following criteria: 
(a)  
Continued In-Service Use. The applicant should evaluate any resultant Engine 
damage and demonstrate that it does not affect the Engine performance and 
operability for continued in-service use. This includes continued safe operation 
with no imminent failures expected, no significant power or thrust loss, and no 
significant aeromechanical effect. 
(b)  
Sustained Power or Thrust Losses. The Engine should not experience any sustained 
power loss beyond 1.5 % (that is, the nominal accepted level considered to be 
within measurement capability). 
(c)  
Temporary or Momentary Power Loss. Where possible, early coordination with the 
aircraft manufacturer is recommended to assess the acceptability of temporary or 
momentary power or thrust losses. 
(d)  
Validation Basis. Analytical tools used to substantiate the criteria for determining 
acceptable damage should demonstrate an acceptable validation basis. For 
example, validation could utilise Engine tests or rig tests to substantiate the 
accuracy of results. An acceptable analytical tool validation basis includes test data 
which yields conservative results. 
(e)  
Engine Damage. Damage to the Engine or Engine components as a result of icing 
compliance testing should not exceed the limits provided in the Instructions for 
Continued Airworthiness. Cumulative damage from repeated encounters should 
be considered a part of this assessment. Any damage findings should be brought 
to the attention of the Agency for approval. 
(f)  
High Vibration. The applicant must ensure that high vibration that may occur 
during operation in icing conditions is assessed for the specific aircraft installation. 
The acceptability of high vibration with regard to its potential impact on the safety 
of the aircraft should be evaluated in cooperation with the aircraft manufacturer, 
where possible. 
Water Impingement Rate: The rate of water collection on an Engine surface during a 
specific period of time. The units of the water impingement rate are g/m2/min. 
Note: Additional definitions can be found in Reference 2. — SAE ARP 5624. 
(1.2) References 
1.  
Mixed-Phase Icing Condition: A review (DOT/FAA/AR-98/76), Dr. Riley, James T, 
Office of Aviation Research, Washington D.C. 20591, U.S. Department of 
Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, December 1998. 
2.  
SAE Aerospace Recommended Practice (ARP) 5624 — ‘Aircraft Inflight Icing 
Terminology’, issued on 3.3.2008, reaffirmed on 23.4.2013. 
(1.3) Test Configuration — Engine 
Because the Engine behaviour cannot easily be divorced from the effects of the Engine 
air intake and Propeller, where possible, it is recommended that the tests be conducted 
on an Engine complete with representative air intake, Propeller (or those parts of the 
Propeller which affect the Engine air intake), and Engine air data probes. Separate 
assessment and/or testing of the air intake, Propeller and air data probes are not 
excluded but in such circumstances, the details of the assumed Engine installation will be 
defined in the manuals containing instructions for installing and operating the Engine 
