 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 179 of 262 
 
shed cycle for rotating surfaces, such as fan blades, is strongly influenced by rotor speed 
and the adhesive strength of the ice to the surface. In general, ice adhesive strength 
increases as surface temperature decreases. 
Icing Conditions: The presence of supercooled liquid water drops and temperature 
conducive to aircraft icing. These conditions are defined by the following parameters: 
— 
Liquid Water Content (LWC): The total mass of water contained in liquid drops 
within a volume or mass unit of cloud or precipitation, usually given in units of 
grams of water per cubic meter or kilogram of dry air (g/m3, g/kg); 
— 
Median Volumetric Diameter (MVD): The drop diameter which divides the total 
liquid water content present in the drop distribution in half, i.e., half the water 
volume will be in larger drops and half the volume in smaller drops. (Also 
sometimes called Median Volume Diameter). Note the MVD used in Appendices O 
and P to CS-25 is equivalent to the MED used in Appendix C to CS-25 and CS-29, CS-
Definitions for an assumed Langmuir type droplet distribution); 
— 
Mean Effective Diameter (MED): A term used with the rotating multicylinder 
method for measuring LWC in clouds. A droplet diameter which, when assigned to 
the midpoint of one of the Langmuir distributions, gives the best agreement 
between the computed and measured differential ice mass accumulations on a set 
of rotating multicylinders. The MED is approximately equal to the MVD; 
— 
Total Air Temperature (TAT): The ambient air temperature plus the ram air 
temperature rise. For icing testing in test cells, the total Engine inlet temperature 
includes the static air temperature of the cloud from the applicable icing 
environment, plus the assumed flight airspeed; and 
— 
Static Air Temperature (SAT): The local measured air temperature minus the air 
temperature rise from velocity effects. 
Power/Thrust Loss Instabilities: Engine operating anomalies that cause Engine 
instabilities. These types of anomalies could include non-recoverable or repeating surge, 
stall, rollback, or flameout, which can result in Engine power or thrust cycling. 
Scoop Factor (concentration factor): The ratio of nacelle inlet highlight area (AH) to the 
area of the captured air stream tube (AC) [scoop factor = AH/AC]. Scoop factor compares 
the liquid water available for ice formation in the Engine inlet to that available in the low-
pressure compressor or Engine core, as a function of aircraft forward airspeed and Engine 
power condition. The scoop factor effect depends on the droplet diameter, the simulated 
airspeed and the Engine power level as well as the geometry and size of the Engine. This 
may be different for turboshaft installations where complex inlet schemes are utilised. 
Sustained Power/Thrust Loss: This is a permanent loss in Engine power or thrust. 
Typically, sustained power loss is calculated at rated take-off power. 
Unacceptable Mechanical Damage: Mechanical damage resulting from the testing of the 
Engine in icing conditions and that is in excess of the limited Engine damage defined 
below. 
When assessing Engine damages, the applicant should fully account for cumulative 
damage from repeated icing conditions encounters. This should include the exposure to 
repeated induced vibration loads (at frequencies and magnitudes corresponding to the 
vibration spectrum predicted using available test evidence) and to repeated shed ice 
impacts. 
