 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 195 of 262 
 
continued or non recoverable surge or stall, or loss of acceleration and deceleration 
capability. It must also be shown after the ingestion that there is no unacceptable 
mechanical damage, unacceptable power or thrust loss, or other adverse Engine 
anomalies. (See AMC E 790(a)(2)). 
(b) 
Engines for Rotorcraft – As an alternative to the specifications specified in CS-E 790(a)(2), but 
for rotorcraft turbine Engines only, it must be shown that each Engine is capable of acceptable 
operation during and after the ingestion of rain with an overall ratio of water droplet flow to 
airflow, by weight, with a uniform distribution at the inlet plane, of at least 4-percent. 
Acceptable Engine operation precludes flameout, rundown, continued or non-recoverable 
surge or stall, or loss of acceleration and deceleration capability. It must also be shown after the 
ingestion that there is no unacceptable mechanical damage, unacceptable power loss, or other 
adverse Engine anomalies. The rain ingestion must occur under the following static ground-level 
conditions:  
(1) 
A normal stabilisation period at Take-off Power without rain ingestion, followed 
immediately by the suddenly commencing ingestion of rain for three minutes at Take-off 
Power; then 
(2) 
Continuation of the rain ingestion during subsequent rapid deceleration to minimum idle 
power; then 
(3) 
Continuation of the rain ingestion during three minutes at minimum idle power to be 
certified for flight operation; then 
(4) 
Continuation of the rain ingestion during subsequent rapid acceleration to Take-off 
Power. 
(c) 
Engines for Supersonic Aeroplanes – In addition to complying with CS-E 790(a)(1) and (a)(2), a 
separate test for supersonic aeroplane Engines only must be conducted with three hailstones 
ingested at supersonic cruise velocity, except as provided otherwise in this CS-E 790(c). The 
Engine operating conditions of rotor speed(s), component loading and component 
temperatures for this test must be representative of supersonic cruise flight operation. These 
hailstones must be aimed at the Engine's critical face area and their ingestion must not cause 
unacceptable mechanical damage or unacceptable thrust loss after the ingestion, or require the 
Engine to be shut down. The hailstones must be ingested in a rapid sequence to simulate a 
hailstone encounter and the size of these hailstones must be determined from the linear 
variation in diameter from 25 millimetres at 10 500 metres to 6 millimetres at 18 000 metres 
using the diameter corresponding to the lowest expected supersonic cruise altitude. 
Alternatively, three larger hailstones may be ingested in a rapid sequence at subsonic velocities 
provided it can be shown that such an ingestion is equivalent to the applicable supersonic 
ingestion in respect of Engine component loading and strength, the kinetic energy of hailstones 
and their depth of penetration into the Engine.  
(d) 
For an Engine that incorporates or requires the use of a protection device, demonstration of 
the rain and hail ingestion capabilities of the Engine, as required in CS-E 790(a), (b) and (c), may 
be waived wholly or in part by the Agency if it is shown that – 
(1) 
The subject rain or hail constituents are of a size that will not pass through the protection 
device; 
(2) 
The protection device will withstand the impact of the subject rain or hail constituents; 
and 
