 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 97 of 262 
 
Probabilistic damage tolerance approaches exist to address anomalies described in 
paragraph (3)(d)(v)(2) above. Hereafter are some examples: 
— 
FAA Advisory Circular (AC) 33.70-2, Damage Tolerance of Hole Features in 
High Energy Turbine Rotors, includes an example of the probabilistic 
approach that applies to manufacturing anomalies in hole features. 
— 
FAA Advisory Circular (AC) 33.70-3, Damage Tolerance for Material 
Anomalies in Titanium Life-Limited Turbine Engine Rotors, includes an 
example of the probabilistic approach that applies to hard alpha material 
anomalies in titanium alloy rotor components. 
The Damage Tolerance Assessment probabilistic typically includes the following 
primary elements:  
Anomaly size and frequency distributions.  
A key input in the Damage Tolerance Assessment is the size and rate of occurrence 
of the anomalies. This type of information may be statistical in nature and can be 
presented in a form that plots a number of anomalies that exceed a particular size 
in a specified amount of material. Anomalies should be treated as sharp 
propagating cracks from the first stress cycle unless there is sufficient data to 
indicate otherwise.  
Crack growth analysis.  
This determines the number of cycles for a given anomaly to grow to a critical size. 
This prediction should be based upon knowledge of the part stress, temperature, 
geometry, stress gradient, anomaly size and orientation, and material properties. 
The analysis approach should be validated against relevant test data.  
Inspection techniques and intervals.  
Manufacturing and in-service inspections are an option to address the fracture 
potential from inherent and induced anomalies. The intervals for each specified in-
service inspection should be identified. Engine removal rates and module and piece 
part availability data could serve as the basis for establishing the inspection 
interval. The manufacturing inspections assumed in the Damage Tolerance 
Assessments should be incorporated into the Manufacturing Plan. Likewise, the 
assumed in-service inspection procedures and intervals should be integrated into 
the Service Management Plan and included, as appropriate, in the Airworthiness 
Limitations Section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness.  
Inspection Probability of Detection (POD).  
The Probability of Detection (POD) of the individual inspection processes, such as 
eddy-current, penetrant fluid or ultrasonic, used to detect potential anomalies 
should be based upon the statistical review of sufficient quantities of relevant 
testing or experience. The relevance of this data should be based upon the 
similarity of parameters such as:  
— the size, shape, orientation, location, and chemical or metallurgical character 
of the anomaly;  
— the condition of the surface condition and cleanliness of the parts;  
— the material being inspected (such as its composition, grain size, conductivity, 
surface texture, etc.); 
