 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 23 of 262 
 
(3) 
The manuals required under CS-E 25 should include, where applicable, details of the division of 
the Engine into modules, giving the nomenclature and clearly defining the boundaries for each 
module. 
(4) 
Inspection and maintenance actions for engines having 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI Power 
ratings. (See CS-E 25(b)(2))  
(a) 
For Engines with 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI Power ratings, the airworthiness 
limitations section of the instructions for continued airworthiness are required to 
prescribe the mandatory post-flight inspections and maintenance actions which are 
applicable following the use of either of these two ratings, or both, prior to next flight. 
If the 2-Minute OEI Power rating time period is extended to 2 1/2 minutes, as described 
in paragraph (5) of AMC E 40(b), the additional 30 seconds period is considered as a de-
rated 30-Second OEI Power rating and the maintenance actions prescribed for the 30-
Second OEI rating should be used. Alternatively, the applicant may seek approval for 
prescribing a different set of inspections and maintenance actions for time exceedence 
of Engine operation at the 2-Minute OEI Power rating if this is appropriately justified and 
validated. For instance, if the Engine is essentially the same as one which has a 2 1/2-
Minute OEI rating equivalent to the new 2-Minute OEI rating, then the maintenance 
considerations of the 2 1/2-Minute OEI rating might also be applicable after use of the 2-
Minute OEI rating for up to 2.5 minutes.  
If only the accumulated usage time is recorded under CS-E 60(d)(2), the inspection and 
maintenance action prescribed as required by CS-E 25(b)(2) should be based on the total 
recorded time duration regardless of the number of applications at the ratings used in 
one flight.  
(b) 
The 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI ratings were originally intended to allow brief periods 
of operation close to the limits of the Engine design. This may result in component 
deterioration beyond serviceable limits so that they would not be suitable for further use. 
The extent to which use of the ratings cause component damage or life reduction, in 
particular the life of Engine Critical Parts, is primarily a function of Engine design margins, 
application exposure level and duration, hardware condition prior to use and operating 
environment. Because Engine operating conditions and time recording are specifications 
for this rating, the maintenance actions can be related directly to an actual documented 
usage level, time and, if applicable, known condition prior to rating application (hours / 
cycles / prior rating exposure, etc.). 
Depending on the actual operating parameters such as temperature and time exposure 
which are recorded during usage of these ratings in accordance with CS-E 60(d), it is 
possible to pre-define a maintenance action and decrement of the remaining time before 
overhaul or component replacement, based on the type, level and duration of exposure. 
If the mandatory maintenance instructions result in no maintenance action, then the 
minimum specification would be the interpretation of recorded event data and 
documentation of the data in the maintenance log(s). The instructions for continued 
airworthiness should also include the definition of data to be provided by the operator 
on the Engine during service to support the applicant in completing the Engine in service 
evaluation programme  
(c) 
Validation of mandatory post-flight inspection and maintenance actions. 
(i) 
Under CS-E 40(f), at any time during its service life, the Engine should be 
maintained in a condition which would assure that the 30-Second and 2-Minute 
