 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 57 of 262 
 
throughout the test either the flow parameters should be shown to be constant 
throughout the test or a post-test calibration should be performed to show equivalency 
with pre-test values.  
(b) 
Flame impingement location 
The test flame generally should be applied to the test article feature(s) that is determined 
by analysis or test to be the most critical with respect to surviving the effects of the fire.  
For this approach, determination of the flame impingement location(s) should consider, 
as a minimum, the following potential factors: materials; geometry; part features; local 
torching effects; vibration; internal fluid level, pressure and flow rate; surface coatings; 
fire protection features; etc.  
Alternatively, the applicant may consider all potential sources of fire in the intended 
installation when determining test flame impingement location specifications.  
The intent is to identify locations or features which cannot be directly impinged by fire, 
and evaluating critical features which can be directly impinged. If the applicant chooses 
this installation analysis approach, it should be based on the actual intended installation, 
and should consider, as a minimum, the factors noted above, plus the following potential 
installation specific factors: cowling and nacelle structure; under cowl airflow; aircraft 
Engine build up hardware; etc. 
Such installation analyses should avoid simple generalities, such as “the most likely flame 
direction is vertical assuming fuel collects at the bottom of the cowl,” and should be co-
ordinated with the installer. If this approach is utilised, each new installation will need to 
be re-evaluated against the original fire protection substantiation to confirm its 
applicability to the new installation. Lastly, due consideration should be given to fire 
protection features such as fire shields, fire protective coatings or other methods so as 
not to discourage or invalidate their use with respect to compliance with CS-E 130. 
(c) 
Operating parameters for test articles 
The operating characteristics and parameters of the test article should be consistent, but 
conservative, with respect to the conditions which might occur during an actual fire 
situation. For example, where a high internal fluid flow increases the heat sink effect, and 
is less conservative with respect to fire susceptibility, a minimum flow condition should 
be specified for the test. The same is true for examples relating to internal fluid 
temperatures or quantity or other parameters.  
(d) 
Electrical Systems components 
For compliance with CS-E 130(e), the effects of fire on components of the electrical 
system should be evaluated. Electrical cables, connectors, terminals and equipment, 
installed in or on the Engine, in designated fire zones should be at least fire resistant.  
(5) 
Flammable fluid tank fire test 
In the absence of an acceptable installation assessment, the fire test flame should be applied to 
the tank location(s) or feature(s) that has been determined by analysis or test to be the most 
critical with respect to fire susceptibility (i.e. the location or feature least likely to survive the 
test conditions or meet the test pass / fail criteria).  
In selecting the flame application location, the tank installation and all features of the tank 
assembly should be considered. Typical tank features include, but are not limited to tank body, 
inlet and outlet assemblies, sight glass, drain plug, magnetic chip detector, quantity sender 
