 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 50 of 262 
 
Table 6  
REFERENCE  
SPECIFICATION  
a  
Quality control of containment means  
b  
Establishment that drive mechanism will prevent the Engine driving the starter to a 
dangerous speed, unless such a probability is Extremely Remote (see CS-E 590)  
c  
Establishment of Approved Life and quality control of rotating Engine Critical Parts 
(see CS-E 515, E 70 and E 110)  
d  
Integrity test of rotating parts (see CS-E 840)  
e  
Clearance between rotating and fixed parts (see CS-E 520(b))  
 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
CS-E 90  Prevention of Corrosion and Deterioration 
(a) 
Each Engine component and each item of equipment must be protected from corrosion and 
deterioration in an approved manner. 
(b) 
Materials which will render the Engine inherently self-protecting against corrosion, without the 
use of internal and external corrosion inhibitors, must be used wherever possible. 
CS-E 100  Strength 
(a) 
The maximum stresses developed in the Engine must not exceed values conforming to those 
established by satisfactory practice for the material involved, due account being taken of the 
particular form of construction and the most severe operating conditions. Where a new type of 
material is involved, evidence must be available to substantiate the assumed material 
characteristics. For Turbine Engines, due consideration must be given to the effects of any 
residual stresses in Engine Critical Parts. 
(b) 
The Engine components which form part of the Engine mounting and any other parts of the 
Engine liable to be critically affected must, when the Engine is properly supported by a suitable 
Enginemounting structure, have sufficient strength to withstand the flight and ground loads for 
the aircraft as a whole in combination with the local loads arising from the operation of the 
Engine. 
(c) 
Each Engine must be designed and constructed to function throughout its declared flight 
envelope and operating range of rotational speeds and power/thrust, without inducing 
excessive stress in any Engine part because of vibration and without imparting excessive 
vibration forces to the aircraft structure. 
CS-E 110  Drawings and Marking of Parts – Assembly of Parts 
(a) 
The drawings for each Engine component and each item of equipment must give full particulars 
of the design and must indicate the materials used in terms of their specifications. The 
protective finish and, where applicable, the surface finish, must be indicated. Any tests 
necessary to establish the manufacturing quality of components or equipment must be quoted 
on the relevant drawings either directly or by reference to other suitable documents. 
(b) 
Except where otherwise agreed each part must be marked so that it can be identified with the 
drawing to which it was made. The position of the markings must be indicated on the drawing. 
