 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 63 of 262 
 
into the Engine instructions for installation, and is considered to be an installation limitation for the 
installer. 
When the installer specifies the environmental conditions of the installation, compliance with this 
specification may be demonstrated by meeting the specified installation specifications.  
When the installation specifications are not specified or not known, environmental conditions of a 
typical installation may be assumed.  
It should be established by analysis or test that all components of the Engine Control System, including 
all electronics units, sensors, harnesses, hydromechanical elements, and any other relevant elements 
or units, operate properly in their declared environment. The environmental limits are not imposed 
by the rules, but should be representative of the environments that are expected to be encountered 
in the Engine installation.  
Additional means may be found in AMC E 80 or in AMC 20-1 and AMC 20-3 for Electronic Engine 
Control Systems.  
In meeting the above environmental concerns, due consideration should be given to dispatching in 
each approved degraded state. 
See AMC E 80 for additional specific means. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 180  Propeller Functioning Tests 
(See AMC E 180) 
(a) 
If approval of the Engine for use with a Variable Pitch Propeller is sought by the Applicant, a 
sufficient portion of the tests prescribed in CS-P, must be made either during or on the 
completion of the endurance test of CS-E 440 or CS-E 740 to demonstrate that the Propeller-
Engine combination will function satisfactorily. The minimum number of tests which will be 
acceptable for Engine approval is given below.  
(b) 
The following tests must be carried out: 
(1) 
Pitch change cycles 
(i) 
Turbine Engines 
(A) 
Fifty forward pitch change cycles, by operation of Propeller control. (Only 
applicable when a separate Propeller control is provided). Each cycle must 
include the maximum range of pitch likely to be experienced in normal use. 
(B) 
100 operations with-drawing the flight fine pitch lock. These may be 
combined with the Engine decelerations prescribed in CS-E 740 for the 
endurance test.  
(ii)  
Piston Engines – For Engines to be approved for use with a variable pitch Propeller, 
100 representative forward pitch change cycles must be made across the range of 
pitch and rotational speed. 
(2) 
10 feathering cycles. In addition, for turbine Engines, where the oil tank is to be approved 
as part of the Engine, the ability to complete one cycle (i.e. one feather and unfeather) 
when the supply of oil has been reduced to the feathering reserve oil (see CS-E 
570(f)(3)(i)) must be demonstrated.  
