 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART C — PISTON ENGINES, TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 73 of 262 
 
(i) 
Power against rotational speed at constant power setting, starting from each rating 
to be declared, over the full range of rotational speeds appropriate to that rating. 
(ii) 
Power against power setting at constant speed, in at least five increments of 
rotational speed between Maximum Take-off rated speed and 60% of best 
economy cruising speed, over the full range of power settings appropriate to that 
speed. The increments selected should include all rated rotational speeds. 
(b) 
The effect on Engine power should be established of all parameters that may affect the 
power produced (e.g. altitude, ambient air temperature, cylinder/coolant temperature, 
mixture setting, fuel specification.). 
(2) 
In complying with CS-E 350(b), the calibration testing outlined in paragraph (1)(a) of this AMC 
should normally be considered adequate. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 360  Detonation Tests 
For spark ignition Engines:  
(a) 
A test shall be conducted to demonstrate that the Engine can function without detonation at 
all operating conditions within the flight envelope. If the design of the ignition system includes 
redundancy, this test shall be repeated in degraded operating modes. 
(b) 
During the test of CS-E 360(a), the Engine shall be operated throughout the range from the 
lowest Engine rotational speed intended to be used for cruising, to the declared maximum 
Engine rotational speed, at the conditions of power setting, mixture setting (if applicable), oil 
temperature, coolant or cylinder-head temperatures, and manifold air pressure and air 
temperature, most likely to cause detonation. An agreed method shall be used to determine 
the degree of detonation. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 370  Starting Tests 
(a) 
At least 100 successful Engine starts must be made, either during or at the end of the endurance 
test of CS-E 440, using the normal means of starting and the technique recommended by the 
Engine constructor. Half the starts must be made with the Engine cold and half with the Engine 
hot. 
(b) 
Time to start, number of attempts, ambient air temperature, and (in the case of electric starters) 
current consumption, must be recorded at the beginning of each 10-hour period. In addition, a 
record must be made of the means and amount of priming, if employed, and whether or not oil 
dilution is used. 
(c) 
If alternative means of starting are provided for emergency or standby use, not less than 10 
additional starts on each of the alternative means of starting provided must be made. These 
tests may be made either as part of the endurance test of CS-E 440 or separately in which case 
they must be followed by a suitable strip examination. 
CS-E 380  Low Temperature Starting Tests 
(see AMC E 380) 
