 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 134 of 262 
 
(i) 
If the applicant uses an endurance test as per CS-E 740(c)(1), (2) or (3), run Stages 
3, 7, 13, 17 and 23 with the bleed(s) in operation during all the conditions of 
running for which they are intended to be approved for use. 
 
If the applicant uses an alternate endurance test as per CS-E 740(c)(4), which does 
not have prescribed test stages, the bleed(s) must be in operation for one fifth of 
the test during all the conditions of running for which they are intended to be 
approved for use. 
(ii) 
During the four test sequences of CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii), an air bleed extraction need 
not be used where it is shown that the validity of the test is not compromised. 
(b) 
Contamination Tests of Bleed Air for Cabin Pressurisation or Ventilation. The specifications of 
this paragraph (b) are applicable where it is desired to declare that compressor bleed air is 
suitable for direct use in an aircraft cabin pressurisation or ventilation system.  
(1) 
Tests to determine the purity of the air supply must be made. 
(2) 
An analysis of defects which could affect the purity of the bleed air must be prepared and 
where necessary the defects must be simulated and tests, as agreed by the Agency, must 
be made to establish the degree of contamination which is likely to occur. If the defect 
under consideration is such that the Engine would be shut down immediately, the tests 
required may be modified accordingly. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
AMC E 690 Engine bleed 
For reducing test complexity, and for improved flexibility needed to attain the key parameters (speed, 
temperature and torque) during the 2-hour test of CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii), maximum air bleed for Engine 
and aircraft services need not be used if the applicant can show by test or analysis based on test that 
the Engine’s ability to meet the strip examination specifications of CS-E 740(i)(2) is not enhanced. The 
analysis should include: 
— the effect of the bleed air extraction to the Engine’s secondary air system which provides cooling 
air to various Engine components;  
— the thermodynamic cycle effects of bleed (e.g., gas generator speed to output shaft speed 
changes). 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
CS-E 700 Excess Operating Conditions 
(See AMC E 700) 
Where any of the operating conditions (e.g. air or gas pressure, thrust, gas temperature) substantiated 
elsewhere in this subpart could be exceeded in any of the normal and likely emergency conditions 
within the flight envelope declared by the Engine constructor, it must be established to the satisfaction 
of the Agency that the most severe conditions likely to occur will have no unacceptable effects on the 
Engine. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
