 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 228 of 262 
 
(1)  
tests and analyses, or other methods that are acceptable to the 
Agency, substantiate that the minimum material properties of the fan 
disk and fan blade retention system can withstand, without Failure, a 
centrifugal load that is equal to two times the maximum load that the 
retention system could experience within the approved Engine 
operating limitations;  
(2)  
a procedure that is approved by the Agency is used to establish an 
operating limitation that specifies the maximum allowable number of 
start-stop stress cycles for the fan blade retention system. The life 
evaluation should include the combined effects of high-cycle and low-
cycle fatigue. If the operating limitation is less than 100 000 cycles, 
this limitation should be specified in the Airworthiness Limitation 
Section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness;  
(3)  
the effects of in-service deterioration, manufacturing variations, 
minimum material properties, and environmental effects should be 
accounted for during the tests and/or analyses.  
NOTE: The fan blade retention system includes the portion of the fan blade 
from the inner annulus flow path line inward to the blade dovetail, the 
blade retention components, and the fan disk and fan blade 
attachment features. 
(ii) 
Engine Conditions at Release. The blade should be released at either - 
(A) 
the maximum rotational speed to be approved (other than Maximum Engine 
Overspeed) and the associated maximum casing temperature, or 
(B) 
any likely combination of the non-transient rotational speed, intake 
temperature and casing temperature that is considered to be more critical. 
NOTE: Any deficiency in the required casing temperature may be compensated for by 
means of a suitable increase in the Engine speed.  
(c) 
Condition after Tests. On completion of the tests, a complete Engine shutdown is 
acceptable, but there should be: 
(i) 
radial containment by the Engine and no significant rupture or hazardous 
distortion of the Engine outer casing, and no unsafe condition from possible 
internal damage to the Engine as a result of blades penetrating the rotor casings, 
even though they are contained within the external geometry of the Engine; 
(ii)  
no other Hazardous Engine Effect resulting from the blade Failure, including due to 
debris being released from the Engine, forward, rearward, or otherwise outside 
the containment structure, unless the Hazardous Engine Effect can be shown to 
occur at a rate not in excess of that defined as Extremely Remote (refer to AMC E 
510).  
Note (1): The approximate size and weight of debris released during the test, along 
with an estimate of the trajectory and velocity, should be recorded to determine 
whether the debris could result in a Hazardous Engine Effect. This data should be 
documented in the Manuals required by CS-E 20(d). 
Note (2): The above assessment is required to demonstrate that the likelihood of 
a Hazardous Engine Effect due to blade Failure is low enough to be accepted for 
Engine certification (i.e. Extremely Remote). Additional considerations may be 
