 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 147 of 262 
 
(2) 
If Stages 3, 7, 13, 17 and 23, or an equivalent demonstration in the alternate endurance 
test specified in CS-E 740(c)(4), if applicable, with bleed(s) in operation, require the use 
of a rotational speed less than the maximum without bleed (as permitted by CS-E 
690(a)(1)(iii)), these Stages , or the equivalent demonstration, need not be included in 
the assessment of the mean rotational speed value, subject to agreement by the Agency.  
(3) 
In the case of Engines incorporating free power-turbines, if the requisite periods are not 
run at the maximum power-turbine torque for which approval is sought, evidence of 
additional running will be required. This may be obtained from tests equivalent to the 
endurance test on a similar Engine, the endurance test Engine or the relevant parts of it. 
In all such additional running the appropriate periods must be run at the maximum 
rotational speed for which approval of the maximum torque is required. 
(4) 
Temperatures. 
(i) 
All periods of the test corresponding to a rating to be approved must be run at the 
appropriate maximum turbine entry temperature for this rating unless otherwise 
agreed. The means of achieving this (e.g. by adjustment of the nozzle areas, the 
use of bleed) must be justified. 
(ii) 
In the case of the alternate test specified in CS-E 740(c)(4), the TCDS-declared EGT 
operating limits temperatures for MTO and MCT will be determined by analysis 
upon completion of the test and are established as the lower of the following 
values: 
(A) 
Values no greater than the EGT values demonstrated in the EGT operating 
limits demonstration as per CS-E 740(c)(4)(iv)(3); 
(B) 
Derived EGT values for MTO and MCT for which the severity demonstration 
for the entire test can be shown to have cumulative severity, for the critical 
component, greater than or equal to the reference severity. 
 
Depending on the option chosen in CS-E 740(c)(4)(v), EGT values used in this 
analysis will be either the turbine gas path temperature established during the test 
or the gas path temperature that corresponds to the maximum critical component 
temperature. 
(iii) 
In general, essentially the average of the maximum temperatures achieved during 
the appropriate periods of the test will be utilised to establish the operating 
limitations of temperature for the Engine. The average EGTs will be reduced, 
however, by the amounts necessary to ensure that the turbine entry temperatures 
in flight do not exceed the turbine entry temperatures established by endurance 
test at the appropriate rating conditions. During the accelerations and short 
periods at Take-off Power, attempts must be made to run at maximum 
temperatures but if, owing to the unstabilised conditions, lower temperature 
readings are recorded, these need not be included in calculating the average. 
(iv) 
Engines for Aeroplanes. Where the Engine characteristics are such that an 
acceleration from cold produces a transient over-temperature in excess of that for 
steady state running, a maximum EGT operating limit for acceleration with a time 
limitation of either up to 30 seconds or up to 2 minutes may be approved.  
(A) 
In the case of the classic endurance test, transient EGT operating limits may 
be approved as follows.  
