 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 41 of 262 
 
above the Take-off Rating limits but within the limits established under CS-E 820, 830, and 870 
need not be considered as usage of 30-Second/2-Minute OEI Power Ratings if the event was a 
true over-torque, over-speed or over-temperature event and it can be demonstrated that the 
recording system is able to distinguish between; 
(i) 
an Engine over-speed, over-torque or over-temperature with all Engines operating, and 
(ii) 
use of the 30 Second/2 Minute OEI Power Ratings with one Engine inoperative.  
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 70  Materials and Manufacturing Methods 
(See AMC E 70) 
(a) 
The suitability and durability of materials used in the Engine must be established on the basis 
of experience or tests. The assumed design values of properties of materials must be suitably 
related to the minimum properties stated in the material specification. 
(b) 
Manufacturing methods and processes must be such as to produce sound structure and 
mechanisms which retain the original mechanical properties under reasonable service 
conditions. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 70  Castings, Forgings, Welded Structures and Welded 
Components 
(1) 
Castings 
The means of maintaining the required quality of all castings should be established by such 
methods as analysis for correct chemical composition, tests of mechanical properties, 
microscopic examination, break-up examination, strength tests, radiographic examination, etc. 
While other forms of examination may be adequate for most parts of castings, radiographic 
examination, where practicable, should be carried out on the more highly stressed portions in 
order to establish that the foundry technique is satisfactory.  
When radiographic examination is called for, this should be continued until a satisfactory 
standard of quality has been established. Subsequent relaxation may be introduced, in quantity 
production, at the Engine constructor's discretion using a system acceptable to the Agency.  
All castings should be subjected to a suitable flaw-detection process. Such processes should be 
completed subsequent to any heat treatment.  
The drawings of each casting should contain information sufficient to identify the relevant 
means of manufacture and quality control, either by detailing the necessary information, or 
quoting the relevant documents. Where necessary, areas of high stress should be identified, 
but this may be done by a separate drawing.  
No change of foundry (i.e. castings constructor) or significant change of foundry technique 
should be made without the agreement of the Engine constructor, and such agreement should 
involve review of the need for the repetition of certain tests and/or a revision of the method of 
quality control.  
(2) 
Forgings 
