 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 161 of 262 
 
The main flow charts (Figures 8.3–8.5 and 8.9–8.11) are divided into two parts. 
— 
The left-hand side is the main loop that will be repeated for each fixed condition 
of the test, and for each of which a particular damage-per-hour (DPH) value will be 
derived to calculate increments of accumulated damage to give the overall sum for 
the process.  
— 
On the right-hand side is the sequence required to calculate the DPH, which utilises 
three separate models. The modelling sequence starts with a performance model 
that simulates the particular Engine fixed (power) conditions (𝑧𝑚) and derives the 
local conditions (𝑦𝑚) for the particular part being assessed. A design model of the 
part would then be used to simulate the part under those local conditions to give 
the local input parameters (𝑥𝑚) for the damage mechanism. A damage model 
would then simulate those material conditions to provide the DPH. 
Some secondary charts are also included to provide further insight into the concept for 
each model.  
 
(d) 
Mathematical background/basis 
 
Ⓐ Severity is the sum of accumulated damage. 
𝑆𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑦 = ∑𝐷𝑎𝑚𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑘
𝑘𝑛
𝑘 = 1
 
 
Ⓑ Damage is the accumulated damage per cycle (k). 
𝐷𝑎𝑚𝑎𝑔𝑒 = ∫𝐷𝑝ℎ 𝑑𝑡 ≅ 𝐷𝑝ℎ ∗ 𝑡 
For the ease of calculation (and introducing only a small error), we neglected the small 
amount of damage accumulated in the ramp up to and down from the stabilised points. 
𝐷𝑝ℎ = 𝐷𝑝ℎ(𝑥1, 𝑥2, 𝑥3, 𝑥4, . . , 𝑥𝑛) 
 
Ⓒ DPH is calculated based on the damage mode specific inputs (𝑥𝑚). Typical local inputs 
include local stress (metal), local temperature (Tmetal), etc. 
𝑥𝑚 = 𝑥𝑚 (𝑦1, 𝑦2, 𝑦3, 𝑦4, . . , 𝑦𝑛, 𝑧1, 𝑧2, 𝑧3, 𝑧4, . . , 𝑧𝑛) 
 
Ⓓ Each of these local inputs into the damage model is in turn calculated from other 
parameters (𝑦𝑚 and 𝑧𝑚). Other typical parameters include both instrumented Engine 
conditions (𝑧𝑚) and derived Engine conditions (𝑦𝑚). Typical instrumented Engine 
conditions (𝑧𝑚) include N1, N2, EGT, EPR, etc. Typical derived Engine conditions (𝑦𝑚) 
include 𝑚̇𝑏𝑙𝑒𝑒𝑑, 𝑇𝑏𝑙𝑒𝑒𝑑, 𝑃𝑏𝑙𝑒𝑒𝑑, 𝑃𝑢𝑝𝑠𝑡𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑚, 𝑃𝑑𝑜𝑤𝑛𝑠𝑡𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑚, 𝑇𝑢𝑝𝑠𝑡𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑚, 𝑇𝑏𝑢𝑙𝑘, etc.  
 
