 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 122 of 262 
 
Engine test, such as the amount of instrumentation capable of being fitted or the range 
of inlet conditions that can be tested. Rig tests generally consist of testing full or part of 
Engine modules. If rig tests are employed, the applicant should demonstrate that all 
pertinent interface conditions and physical hardware closely replicate actual Engine 
conditions. 
(b) 
Speed requirements 
It should be the goal of the test programme to cover at least the ranges of conditions 
required under CS-E 650(b) and (c). 
CS-E 650(b)(1) requires consideration of 103 % of the maximum rotational speed 
permitted for rating periods of two minutes or longer, but where it proves physically 
impracticable to achieve the appropriate extended test conditions, the Agency may 
accept an alternative that complies with the intent of the requirement. Historically, the 3 
% margin has been imposed to account for transient overshoot. If it can be demonstrated 
that the characteristics of the Engine Control System are such that the maximum rated 
speed cannot be exceeded in fault-free operation, the required maximum tested speed 
may, with the agreement of the Agency, be adjusted downward, but may not be less than 
100 %. 
Where an extension to the range required by CS-E 650(b) is considered necessary for the 
identification of the effects of a rising vibratory stress peak, as required under CS-E 650(c), 
but it proves physically impracticable to achieve the appropriate extended test 
conditions, the Agency may accept an alternative that complies with the intent of the 
requirement. Historically, the requirement has been imposed to account for Engine-to-
Engine variability. The Engine manufacturing and build tolerances can result in peak 
vibratory stresses occurring at slightly different rotor speeds for Engines and Engine parts 
(for example blades) of the same type design. If tested components are deliberately 
selected to cover an adverse range of manufacturing variability or any other effect 
normally captured by increasing the test maximum speed by a further 2 %, the required 
maximum tested speed may, with the agreement of the Agency, be adjusted downward, 
but may not be less than the maximum speed established for compliance with CS-E 
650(b). 
Any reduction in the speed range requirements of CS-E 650(b) and (c) proposed for the 
test programme should be justified by the applicant and agreed by the Agency. Normally, 
it would be expected that any test shortfall is covered by validated analysis. 
Refer also to paragraph (5) ‘Altitude and Temperature Effects’ and (8) ‘Flutter’ for 
complementary guidance on affecting speeds. 
(c) 
Instrumentation 
To acquire the data required under CS-E 650 when conducting vibration surveys, the 
applicant should use suitable instrumentation, data acquisition, and analyser systems. 
Vibration-specific instrumentation may include dynamic strain gauges, accelerometers, 
dynamic pressure gauges and time-of-arrival sensors. 
Vibratory stresses are most commonly calculated using dynamic strain gauges placed at 
predetermined locations and oriented to measure specific directional strains. These 
strain gauges should maintain their accuracy throughout the test conditions, particularly 
when repeatedly exposed to high temperatures for extended periods. The applicant 
should aim to take measurements at locations which are sensitive to the peak responses 
of interest but are also tolerant of a degree of mislocation/alignment variability. When 
