 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 22 of 262 
 
locations of lubrication points, lubricants to be used and equipment required for 
servicing. 
(5) 
Scheduling information for each part of the Engine that provides the recommended 
periods at which it should be cleaned, inspected, adjusted, tested and lubricated, and the 
degree of inspection, the applicable serviceability limits, and work recommended at 
these periods. Necessary crossreferences to the airworthiness limitations section must 
also be included. In addition, if appropriate, an inspection programme must be included 
that states the frequency of the inspections necessary to provide for the continued 
airworthiness of the Engine. 
(6) 
Troubleshooting information describing probable malfunctions, how to recognise those 
malfunctions and the remedial action for those malfunctions. 
(7) 
Information describing the order and method of removing the Engine and its parts and 
replacing parts, the order and method of disassembly and assembly, with any necessary 
precautions to be taken. Instructions for proper ground handling, crating and shipping 
must also be included. 
(8) 
Cleaning and inspection instructions that cover the material and apparatus to be used 
and methods and precautions to be taken. Methods of inspection must also be included. 
(9) 
Details of repair methods for worn or otherwise non-serviceable parts and components 
along with the information necessary to determine when replacement is necessary. 
Details of all relevant fits and clearances. 
(10) Instructions for testing including test equipment and instrumentation. 
(11) Instructions for storage preparation, including any storage limits. 
(12) A list of the tools and equipment necessary for maintenance and directions as to their 
method of use. 
(13) Instructions applicable to information system security protection as required by  
CS-E 50(l). 
 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No.: E/6] 
[Amdt. No.: E/7] 
AMC E 25 Instructions for continued airworthiness 
(1) 
The maintenance actions are determined through certification testing, including, where 
applicable, endurance tests, initial maintenance programme test, over-speed tests, over-
temperature tests, and supplemented by development testing and service experience of 
Engines of the same type or of similar design. Servicing information should cover maintenance 
details regarding servicing points, inspections, adjustments, tests and replacement of 
components if required. 
The mandatory inspection and maintenance actions considered under CS-E 25(b)(1) may also 
evolve after entering service, based on the service experience.  
(2) 
Where it is permitted to carry out certain tests with the engines installed in the aircraft, the 
relevant manual(s) should provide information on the way in which minimum installed 
performance levels will be verified (if necessary) and related to the static sea-level test-bed 
ratings approved for the Engine. 
