 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 89 of 262 
 
be capable of controlled flight following such an event. For the purpose of the Engine 
safety analysis and Engine certification, Engine Failure with no external effect other than 
loss of thrust and services may be regarded as a Failure with a minor effect. This 
assumption may be revisited during aircraft certification, where installation effects such 
as Engine redundancy may be fully taken into consideration. This re-examination applies 
only to aircraft certification and is not intended to impact Engine certification.  
The Failure to achieve any given power or thrust rating for which the Engine is certificated 
should be covered in the safety analysis and may be regarded as a minor Engine effect. 
Similarly, this assumption may be revisited during aircraft certification, particularly multi-
Engine rotorcraft certification.  
(g) 
Determination of the effect of a Failure. 
Prediction of the likely progression of some Engine Failures may rely extensively upon 
engineering judgement and may not be proved absolutely. If there is some question over 
the validity of such engineering judgement, to the extent that the conclusions of the 
analysis could be invalid, additional substantiation may be required. Additional 
substantiation may consist of reference to Engine test, rig test, component test, material 
test, engineering analysis, previous relevant service experience, or a combination 
thereof. If significant doubt exists over the validity of the substantiation so provided, 
additional testing or other validation may be required under CS-E 510(b).  
(h) 
Reliance on maintenance actions. 
For compliance with CS-E 510(e)(1) it is acceptable to have general statements in the 
analysis summary that refer to regular maintenance in a shop as well as on the line. If 
specific Failure rates rely on special or unique maintenance checks, those should be 
explicitly stated in the analysis.  
In showing compliance with the maintenance error element of CS-E 510(e)(1), the Engine 
maintenance manual, overhaul manual, or other relevant manuals may serve as the 
appropriate substantiation. A listing of all possible incorrect maintenance actions is not 
required in showing compliance with CS-E 510(e)(1).  
Maintenance errors have contributed to hazardous or catastrophic effects at the aircraft 
level. Many of these events have arisen due to similar incorrect maintenance actions 
being performed on multiple engines during the same maintenance availability by one 
maintenance crew, and are thus primarily an aircraft-level concern. Nevertheless, 
precautions should be taken in the Engine design to minimise the likelihood of 
maintenance errors. However, completely eliminating sources of maintenance error 
during design is not possible; therefore, consideration should also be given to mitigating 
the effects in the Engine design.  
If appropriate, consideration should be given to communicating strategies against 
performing contemporaneous maintenance of multiple engines.  
Components undergoing frequent maintenance should be designed to facilitate the 
maintenance and correct re-assembly.  
The following list of Engine maintenance errors was constructed from situations that have 
occurred in service and have caused one or more serious events:  
— Failure to restore oil system or borescope access integrity after routine maintenance 
(oil chip detector or filter check). Similar consideration should be given to other 
systems.  
