 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 178 of 262 
 
determined. Those conditions shall be appropriate to the Engine installation on the 
aircraft. These assumptions must be included in the manuals containing instructions for 
installing and operating the Engine under CS-E 20(d). 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/4] 
[Amdt No: E/7] 
AMC E 780 Icing Conditions 
(1) 
Introduction 
This AMC provides Guidance Material and Acceptable Means of Compliance for showing 
compliance with CS-E 780. 
Test evidence is normally required for Supercooled Liquid Water (SLW) icing conditions. For 
other applicable icing conditions, compliance may be demonstrated by a combination of test, 
analysis and service experience.  
(1.1) Definitions 
Auto-Recovery Systems: Engine systems that ensure that Engines operate just before or 
immediately after an upset (that is, power loss or stall) without operator intervention. 
Auto-recovery systems include auto-relight systems, stall recovery systems, and other 
Engine systems intended to recover the operability of an Engine following a flameout, 
surge, stall, or a combination of these. 
Freezing Fraction: The ratio of the mass of water that freezes at a point on a surface to 
the total mass of incoming water at that point. 
Highlight Area: The area bounded by the leading edge of the nacelle inlet. This may be 
different for turboshaft installations where complex inlet schemes are utilised. 
Ice Formations: Ice formations resulting from the impact of supercooled water droplets 
on propulsion system surfaces are classified as follows: 
(a) 
Glaze Ice: This is a transparent or translucent ice formed by liquid water droplets 
that do not freeze immediately on impact and has horns. Droplets impacting the 
surface do not freeze immediately, but run back along the surface until freezing 
occurs. Glaze ice typically has a non-aerodynamic shape and is more susceptible to 
aerodynamic forces that result in shedding. Glaze ice typically has both a lower 
freezing fraction and lower adhesive properties than rime ice. Glaze ice is often a 
concern for static hardware while rime ice is often a concern for rotating hardware. 
(b) 
Rime Ice: This is a milky and opaque ice formed by liquid cloud droplets that freeze 
immediately on impact. Rime ice typically forms in an aerodynamic shape, on both 
rotating and static Engine hardware. The freezing fraction is high for rime ice, 
typically approaching a value of 1.0. Rime ice typically has greater adhesion 
properties than glaze ice but often a lower density. Adhesion properties increase 
with lower temperature up to a test point where no additional adhesion is gained 
with additional lower temperature. 
Ice Shed Cycle: The time period required to build up and then shed ice on a propulsion 
system surface for a given power and icing condition. A shed cycle can be identified 
visually (for example, with high-speed cameras), and with Engine instrumentation (such 
as vibration pickups, temperature probes, pressure probes, speed pickups, etc.). The ice 
