 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 55 of 262 
 
Consideration should be given to non-self-extinguishing fire test events. This type 
of event could be either combustion of the constituent material of the test article 
or combustion of flammable fluid leaking from the component. In general, these 
events should continue to be cause for Failure of the test, unless it can be shown 
that the constituent material supporting combustion is not a hazardous quantity 
of flammable fluid, vapour, or material as defined in this AMC. 
This has been the case for certain electronic components. Current technology 
electronic components often use circuit board potting compounds internal to the 
casings of the Engine Control System that may support combustion when heated 
sufficiently or when exposed to fire. These compounds can also flow under high 
heat and may leak through the casings. Therefore, such materials may support a 
small intensity fire internal and / or external to the casing for a limited period of 
time after the test flame is removed.  
(iv) 
Firewall  
At no time during or at the end of the test should a firewall component fail to 
contain the fire within the intended zone or area. Implied with this outcome is the 
expectation that the firewall component will not develop a burn through hole and 
will not fail in any manner at its attachment or fire seal points around the periphery 
of the component and will not continue to burn after the test flame is removed. 
There should not be backside ignition.  
(v) 
Other conditions  
At no time during or at the end of the test should a Hazardous Engine Effect result.  
(3) 
Materials 
(a) 
Experience has shown that when using materials such as magnesium and titanium alloys, 
appropriate design precautions may be required to prevent an unacceptable fire hazard. 
Consideration should be given to the possibility of fire as a result of rubbing or contact 
with hot gases. 
Any material used for abradable linings needs to be assessed to ensure that fire or 
explosion hazards are avoided. Consideration should also be given to the effects of 
mechanical Failure of any Engine component and to the effects of dimensional changes 
resulting from thermal effects within the Engine.  
(b) 
Use of Titanium 
Many titanium alloys used for manufacturing Engine rotor and stator blades will ignite 
and may sustain combustion, if the conditions are appropriate. In general, titanium fires 
burn very fast and are extremely intense. The molten particles in titanium fires generate 
highly erosive hot sprays which have burned through compressor casings with resulting 
radial expulsion of molten or incandescent metal. In such cases, depending on the 
installation, the aircraft could be hazarded.  
In showing compliance with CS-E 130(a) the applicant should assess the overall design for 
vulnerability to titanium fires. If this assessment cannot rule out the possibility of a 
sustained fire, then it should be shown that a titanium fire does not result in a Hazardous 
Engine Effect. 
Based on experience, the following precautions can reduce the susceptibility of Engines 
to titanium fires:  
