 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 56 of 262 
 
— The type of alloy i.e. its constituents other than titanium;  
— Blade / casing coatings or mechanical linings which inhibit ignition or subsequent 
combustion;  
— The way in which the design minimises potentially dangerous rubs by such methods 
as: 
— Large inter blade row clearances;  
— The use of appropriate abradable materials in areas of potential rub of 
sufficient depth to accommodate predicted rotor or stator deflections 
including those likely to occur in Fault conditions;  
— Not using titanium for adjacent rotating and static parts;  
— Taking full account of rotor movements under transient and bearing Failure 
conditions;  
— Ensuring that thin, easily ignited titanium sections are unlikely to be shed at 
the front of the Engine.  
(c) 
Use of Magnesium 
Many magnesium alloys used in the manufacture of Engine components are highly 
combustible when in finely divided form, such as chips or powder. Therefore the use of 
magnesium alloys in thin sections or where they are exposed to corrosion, rubbing or 
high scrubbing speeds should be carefully evaluated.  
In showing compliance with CS-E 130, the applicant should assess the overall design for 
vulnerability to magnesium fires. If this assessment cannot rule out the possibility of a 
sustained fire, then it should be shown that a magnesium fire would be confined to areas 
within the Engine such that it does not result in a Hazardous Engine Effect.  
(d) 
Abradable Linings 
Many fan, compressor and turbine modules have abradable linings between rotating 
blade tips and stator casings. Depending upon the material used in the abradable lining, 
experience has shown that fire or explosion can occur in the presence of an ignition 
source if a significant amount of lining is removed during rubs between rotor and stator. 
Under certain conditions, auto-ignition can occur in the mixture of small particles 
extracted from the abradable linings and hot flow path gases.  
These situations should be evaluated for each fan, compressor and turbine stage which 
has an abradable lining.  
(e) 
Absorbent Materials 
Absorbent materials should not be used in close proximity to flammable fluid system 
components unless they are treated or covered to prevent the absorption of a hazardous 
quantity of such fluid.  
(4) 
Specific interpretations 
(a) 
Test equipment and calibration 
Acceptable procedures for calibration of the relevant burners for the tests, and the 
standard flame, are defined in the ISO 2685 standard. 
A pre test calibration to verify that the standard flame temperature and heat flux is 
achieved is necessary for each test. To ensure that flame conditions are constant 
