 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART C — PISTON ENGINES, TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 74 of 262 
 
(a) 
Tests shall be carried out to demonstrate that the Engine can be started under the lowest 
temperature conditions to be approved, without causing damage to the Engine. At least 25 
Engine starts shall be made at oil inlet temperatures, evenly distributed between + 5°C and the 
minimum temperature to be declared for starting. Before each start attempt, the oil inlet 
temperature and the temperature of the Engine shall be substantially the same as the 
temperature of the ambient air. 
(b) 
The tests shall be carried out using representative aircraft and ground starting equipment and 
using the starting technique defined in the operating instructions. 
(c) 
The Engine shall be fitted with a representative flight Propeller or its equivalent, and 
representative aircraft equipment, as defined in CS-E 20(c). 
(d) 
Both before and after the completion of the low temperature starting tests, the Engine and 
equipment shall be submitted to a strip examination to demonstrate that the condition of the 
Engine is satisfactory for continued safe operation. Measurements shall be made of those 
dimensions liable to change by reason of wear or distortion. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 380  Low Temperature Starting Tests 
The minimum tropical and temperate sea-level temperature as defined in CS-Definitions is -20°C. In 
order not to restrict operation of the aircraft in which the Engine is installed, it is recommended that 
the minimum temperature declared for starting should be not higher than -20°C. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 390  Acceleration Tests 
(a) 
The tests of CS-E 390(a)(1) and (2) must be carried out at the end of the endurance test of CS-E 
440 without heated intake air and repeated, when applicable, with intake air heated to the 
maximum temperature likely to be experienced at any operating condition within the flight 
envelope. 
(1) 
For all Engines, except two-speed supercharged Engines, five accelerations must be made 
from idling conditions to Take-off Power. 
(2) 
For two-speed supercharged Engines, five accelerations must be made from idling 
conditions up to each condition 
(i) 
To Take-off Power with supercharger in low gear 
(ii) 
To Maximum Continuous Power with supercharger in high gear. 
(b) 
The Engine shall respond without hesitation and accelerate smoothly throughout the range, 
when the power lever is moved from the minimum flight idle position to the Take-off or 
Maximum Continuous position, as appropriate, in not more than one second. 
(c) 
If the Engine is to be approved for use with a propeller with variable or adjustable pitch, for the 
tests of CS-E 390(a) the propeller pitch shall be set such that the Engine will produce not less 
than rated Takeoff power at the Engine rotational speed used to define the Take-off rating 
(see CS-E 40(h)). 
(d) 
Each acceleration (except for those with a supercharger in high gear) shall be made starting 
from the minimum temperatures for acceleration from idle to be declared in the operating 
