 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 118 of 262 
 
(b) 
Compliance with CS-E 640(a) must take account of  
(1) 
The operating temperature of the part, 
(2) 
Any other significant static loads in addition to pressure loads, 
(3) 
Minimum properties representative of both the material and the processes used in the 
construction of the part, and 
(4) 
Any adverse geometry conditions allowed by the type design. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 640 Pressure Loads 
(1) 
Definitions. For the purpose of CS-E 640(a) the following definitions apply and should be related 
to the Engine when installed in a typical installation. 
Normal Working Pressure. 
The maximum pressure differential likely to occur on most 
flights including any pressure fluctuations as a result of the 
normal operation of valves, cocks, etc, where these could 
produce significant surge pressures.  
Maximum Working Pressure. 
The maximum pressure differential which could occur under 
the most adverse operational conditions (e.g. forward speed, 
altitude, ambient temperature, Engine speed, use of OEI 
ratings) likely to be encountered in service, including any 
pressure fluctuations as a result of the normal operation of 
valves, cocks, etc., where these could produce significant surge 
pressures.  
Maximum Possible Pressure. 
The maximum pressure differential which could occur under 
the most adverse combination of operational conditions (e.g. 
forward speed, altitude, ambient temperature, Engine Speed, 
use of OEI ratings) likely to be experienced in service, together 
with Failure of any relevant parts of the Engine or control 
system, or combinations of Failures which are more likely than 
Extremely Remote. Consideration should be given to any 
pressure fluctuations as a result of normal or emergency use of 
valves, cocks, etc., where these could produce significant surge 
pressures.  
Static Parts subject to significant gas or liquid pressure loads. The components subject to high-
pressure loads or whose design is influenced by the gas or liquid 
pressure loads to be contained. Examples might include the 
compressor, combustor and turbine casings, heat exchangers, 
bleed valve solenoids, starter motors or fuel, oil and hydraulic 
system components. Special attention should be given to any 
filler cap. 
(2) 
Static Pressure Tests (see CS-E 640(a)) 
The anticipated Engine manual serviceable limits may be used as the criteria to judge the 
acceptability of any permanent distortion.  
