 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 207 of 262 
 
up can result in reduced conservatism due to additional centrifuging by the 
fan or Propeller and spinner. The concentration of the rain may need to be 
increased to compensate for the added centrifuging resulting from ground-
level testing.  
(ii)  
Engine test facility 
The Engine test facility should provide a uniform water droplet or hail spatial 
distribution within the critical area of a plane within the Engine intake, and that 
plane should be agreed to by the Agency. The facility should also provide proper 
droplet or particle sizes and proper velocity distributions, unless otherwise justified 
in accordance with Appendix A to CS-E.  
(iii)  
Instrumentation  
Instrumentation and data sampling rates should be sufficient to establish the rain 
and hail temperatures and concentrations, particle velocities and size distributions, 
and the Engine response. Primary exhaust water-to-air ratio measurements via gas 
sampling should be considered. Instrumentation accuracy and repeatability should 
be demonstrated by suitable means.  
(iv)  
Test procedure  
The test procedure should consider the following for operability critical point tests 
and for the thermal shock (rain only) critical point test:  
(A) 
Stabilise the Engine at the critical point conditions. 
(B) 
Take steady-state data readings before introducing rain or hail. 
(C) 
Start the continuous transient data recording prior to the initiation of rain or 
hail flow. 
(D) 
Establish the altitude equivalent rain or hail flow at the proper inlet velocity 
and size distribution. The maximum rain and hail ingestion rates should 
occur within 10 seconds. 
(E) 
Conduct operability critical point tests at the following steady-state 
conditions: 
(a) 
Deliver rain for a minimum of 3 minutes, at the altitude equivalent 
concentration defined in Figure A1 and Table A1 in Appendix A of CS-
E. 
(b)  
Deliver hail for a minimum of 30 seconds, at the altitude equivalent 
concentration defined in Figure A1 and Table A2 in Appendix A of CS-
E. 
(c)  
Deliver a short burst of high-concentration hail of 13 g/m3 hail water 
content (HWC) under conditions representative of a 15 000-ft altitude 
for a minimum of 5 seconds.  
Note: Applicants can elect to integrate the test point required by paragraph 
(E)(c) within the 30-Second test point required by paragraph (E)(b), or 
consider it separately using test or analysis. Applicants may also 
propose justifiable alternatives to assess similar short-term, high-
concentration threats. 
