 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 221 of 262 
 
(v) 
Following the initial 14 minutes, the thrust is reduced, and a maximum of 30 
seconds is allowed for the applicant to manipulate the thrust lever to find the 
specified thrust. This is to allow for potential damage to the Engine, which might 
require careful throttle management. 
(vi) 
The components referred to in CS-E 800(g)(3)(ii)(A) include, for example, fan blades 
and their retention / spacer components, fan outlet guide vanes, spinners, fan disks 
and shafts, fan cases, frames, main bearings and bearing supports, including 
frangible bearing assemblies or devices. The intent is that a subassembly test 
should adequately represent the mechanical aspects of a type design Engine during 
the large flocking bird ingestion.  
(vii) 
The dynamic effects (and related operability concerns) referred to in CS-E 
800(g)(3)(ii)(C) include, but are not limited to, surge and stall, flameout, limit 
exceedances, and any other considerations relative to the ability of the type-design 
Engine to comply with the specifications of CS-E 800(c). 
(c) 
Medium and small flocking birds 
(i) 
The Engine test of CS-E 800(d) will demonstrate that the Engine will produce the 
required power or thrust, while maintaining acceptable handling characteristics 
during a 20-minute run-on simulating a return to the airport after the ingestion of 
medium or small flocking birds at take-off. This will consequently demonstrate 
compliance with CS-E 540(b).  
(ii) 
The applicant will identify under CS-E 800(d)(1)(ii) all the critical locations and 
those which have to be used during the small or medium bird engine ingestion 
tests, and appropriately consider the potential effects of the assumed aircraft 
installations. The spinner and the other parts of the front of the Engine may be 
evaluated separately under CS-E 800(f).  
(iii) 
In the tests performed under paragraph CS-E 800(d), the Engine is required to 
produce at least 75% of the test conditions power or thrust after the ingestion of 
either small or medium birds. Nevertheless, a momentary power/ thrust drop 
below this value is acceptable, but its duration should not exceed 3 seconds after 
the ingestion.  
(iv) 
Exceedances of Engine operating limitations associated with Take-off conditions 
should not occur during the first 2 minutes following the ingestion of the birds in 
the 20-minute run-on test. If an exceedance of limits occurs during these 2 
minutes, except during the first 3 seconds of the test, this should be considered 
when complying with CS-E 700. After these initial 2 minutes without any power 
lever movement, it is permitted to control exceedances, if any. Any intervention to 
control exceedances should be recorded, and suitable instructions should be 
provided in the instructions for the installation of the Engine. After any such power 
lever adjustment, the Engine should still produce the required power or thrust for 
the test. In CS-E 800(d)(1)(iii) and (iv), a movement of the power lever means an 
action on the means which provides a power or thrust setting for the Engine 
control. This can be a mechanical device in the test facility control room or an 
electronic signal sent to the Engine Control System.  
(d) 
 Core Engine flocking bird ingestion test  
(i)  
Determining climb rotor speeds  
