 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 46 of 262 
 
The room temperature demonstration is to identify any damage caused by extended 
operation at room temperature that could lead to equipment Failure. EUROCAE ED-14 / 
RTCA/DO-160, section 4 tests have been used to show compliance. Historical 
specifications can also be found in MIL-E-5007 Paragraph 4.6.2.2.6. This test may be 
combined with the contaminated fluid tests, if applicable.  
Contaminated Fluids  
The contaminated fluid demonstration is to verify that the Engine systems can function 
properly in a contaminated fluid environment. This can be achieved either by system 
testing or individual item of equipment test/analysis. Refer to the applicable CS-E 
specifications, such as CS-E 560 for fuel, CS-E 570 for oil and CS-E 580(a) for air for more 
details. Testing may be combined with the room temperature demonstration.  
Vibration  
The vibration demonstration is to verify that exposure to the declared vibration 
environment does not cause structural Failures and to verify that the equipment 
functions properly when exposed to that vibration. This can be addressed by either a 
specific unbalanced Engine test or by equipment test. The equipment may not be 
required to be operational during equipment testing if the applicant can demonstrate by 
other means that the equipment operate satisfactorily or do not adversely impact system 
operation when subjected to the declared vibration environment. EUROCAE ED-14 / 
RTCA/DO-160, Section 8 tests are appropriate if the equipment vibration environment 
can be correlated to the DO-160 standards.  
Operational shock and crash safety  
The operational shock demonstration is to verify that exposure to shocks experienced 
during normal aircraft operations will allow the equipment to continue to function 
properly. The crash safety demonstration is to verify that exposure to shocks experienced 
in crash conditions will not cause Failure of the mounting attachment. This demonstration 
applies to cases where separation of the equipment could lead to a Hazardous Engine 
Effect. EUROCAE ED-14 / RTCA/DO-160, Section 7 2 and 7.3.1 tests respectively are 
appropriate.  
Sand and Dust  
The sand and dust demonstration is applicable to all equipment that is not 
environmentally sealed. Testing should be performed according to EUROCAE ED-14 / 
RTCA/DO-160 section 12, category D.  
Fluid Susceptibility  
The fluid susceptibility demonstration is to verify that the equipment can function 
properly after exposure to specified fluids and identify any damage caused by such 
exposure that could lead to equipment Failure. Normally the fluids to be considered are 
those likely to be encountered in service, such as fuel, oil, hydraulic fluids, cleaning 
solvents, etc. Equipment testing may follow the procedures defined in EUROCAE ED-14 / 
RTCA/DO-160 section 11, category F, paragraph 11.4.1 (Spray Test). At the conclusion of 
the test, if the design of the unit allows, the unit under test should be opened and 
inspected for entry of the test fluid. If evidence of fluid entry is detected, the applicant 
should provide the rationale for accepting the test results based on the criticality of the 
quantity and location of the fluid entry point.  
Salt Spray  
