 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 110 of 262 
 
As well as being part of the demonstration of compliance with CS-E 540(a), the effects of the 
large bird ingestion test of CS-E 800 on the spinner or any Engine static part, as a result of a bird 
strike, should be assessed against the criteria of CS-E 510. Main frame struts or bifurcation strut 
fairings may be exposed to impact from birds or bird debris. Such frame struts or strut fairings 
may house fuel, oil, hydraulic, high-pressure bleed air lines, or wiring associated with the engine 
control system. The applicant should consider the potential for bird induced damage to these 
ducts, lines or wires with regard to the objective of CS-E 540. 
In order to verify the Extremely Remote criteria for Hazardous Engine Effects in case of bird 
strikes as required in CS-E 540(a), consideration should be given to the possibility of aircraft 
operation at speeds higher than 200 knots, associated with the corresponding probability of 
occurrence of encountering a single bird under such conditions.  
(2) 
CS-E 540(b) is intended to address for example rain, hail, ice, gravel, sand, small and medium 
birds. For some threats the interpretation of the specifications of CS-E 540(b) should be made 
in relation to other CS-E specifications, such as CS-E 800 for birds or CS-E 790 for rain and hail, 
which may quantify the safety objectives of CS-E 540(b). These related paragraphs are therefore 
intended to be sufficient for demonstrating compliance with CS-E 540(b) for the considered 
subject. Nevertheless, any unusual finding made during these demonstrations of compliance 
should be assessed against the safety objective of CS-E 540(b) continued safe flight and landing.  
[Amdt No: E/1] 
CS-E 560 Fuel System 
(See AMC E 560) 
(a) 
(1) 
Each fuel specification to be approved, including any additive, and the associated 
limitations in flow, temperature and pressure that ensure proper Engine functioning 
under all intended operating conditions must be declared and substantiated. 
(2) 
Any parameter of the fuel specification which is likely to adversely affect Engine 
functioning or durability must be identified so that, where necessary, Engine or rig testing 
using appropriate fuel may be conducted. 
(3) 
The Engine fuel pump must have a margin of capacity over the maximum Engine demand 
in the flight envelope consistent with the assumed aircraft installation specifications. 
(b) 
(1) 
Filters, strainers or other equivalent means must be provided to protect the fuel system 
from malfunction due to contaminants. These devices must have the capacity to 
accommodate any likely quantity of contaminants, including water, in relation to 
recommended servicing intervals and, if provided, the blockage or by-pass indication 
system (see also CS-E 670). 
(2) 
Any main fuel filter or strainer provided between the Engine fuel inlet and any device 
having a significant function for the control of the thrust or power must have a means to 
permit indication of impending blockage of the filter or strainer either: 
(i) 
To the flight crew or 
(ii) 
To the maintenance crew, if it can be shown that the Engine will continue to 
operate normally with the levels of contamination specified, for a period equal to 
the inspection interval of the impending blockage indicator. 
