 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 111 of 262 
 
(c) 
If a by-pass means is provided on any filter or strainer, it must be designed such that, if the filter 
or strainer element is completely blocked, fuel will continue to flow at an acceptable rate 
through the rest of the system. In addition: 
(1) 
The design of the by-pass must be such that, when it is in operation, the previously 
collected contaminants in the filter or strainer will not enter the Engine fuel system 
downstream of the filter or strainer. 
(2) 
The design of the fuel system must be such that, when the by-pass is open, operation on 
contaminated fuel does not result in a Hazardous Engine Effect. 
(3) 
If the maintenance action to be taken after by-pass operation is different from that 
following an indication of impending blockage, then indication of by-pass operation must 
be provided. 
(d) 
The fuel system must be designed so that any accumulation of likely quantities of water which 
may separate from the fuel will not cause Engine malfunctioning. 
(e) 
If icing can occur in the fuel system, continued satisfactory functioning of the Engine in such 
circumstances must be ensured without the need for any action by the flight crew. If compliance 
relies upon fuel anti-icing additives or other means incorporated in the aircraft fuel system, this 
must be declared under CS-E 30 together with a statement of the conditions which must be 
met. 
(f) 
Provision must be made near each fuel pressure connection provided for instrumentation so as 
to limit the loss of fluid in the event of a pipe Failure. 
(g) 
Design precautions must be taken against the possibility of errors and inadvertent or 
unauthorised changes in setting of all fuel control adjusting means. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 560 Fuel System 
(1) 
More than one type of fuel may be allowed: CS-E 560(a) applies to each type and covers 
additives in the fuel (for example, fuel system icing inhibitor). 
Some Engines may use other fluids, such as water methanol: when appropriate, the word "fuel" 
in CS-E 560 should be interpreted as covering these fluids as well.  
If the Engine may be adversely affected by a parameter of the fuel specification, such as sulphur 
or gum content, this should be identified in the appropriate documentation.  
When defining the fuel specifications under CS-E 560(a), CS-E 90 should also be considered for 
effects induced in the fuel system by the fuel itself, fuel additives or water in the fuel.  
(2) 
To comply with CS-E 560(b)(1), contaminants likely to be present in the fuel delivered to the 
Engine from the aircraft should be considered, as well as contaminants resulting from wear of 
a part or component of the Engine fuel system (such as fuel pump bearing). 
(3) 
In compliance with CS-E 560(e), any means provided for protection against icing in the fuel 
system may either be in operation continuously or commence operation automatically when 
required. 
(4)  
In compliance with CS-E 560(d) and (e), the applicant should consider the effect on Engine 
operability of the transient fuel icing conditions likely to be encountered in service. In the 
absence of a completed threat assessment by the aircraft manufacturer, the applicant should 
make an assessment of the potential threat, or declare that no capability has been 
