 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 40 of 262 
 
(4) 
In complying with CS-E 60(d), the recording system should only be able to be reset by the 
maintenance personnel and not by the flight crew, in order to prevent further Engine operation 
without having taken the prescribed mandatory post-flight inspection and maintenance action. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No.: E/7] 
AMC E 60(d)  Provision for instruments 
(1) 
For the purpose of complying with CS-E 60(d), the 30-Second OEI power level is considered to 
be used whenever one or more of the operating limitations applicable to the 2-Minute OEI 
power level are exceeded. The 2-minute OEI power level is considered to be used whenever 
one or more of the operating limitations applicable to the next lower OEI power rating or other 
Engine rating (if applicable) are exceeded.  
(2) 
The required means, provided by the applicant or by the rotorcraft manufacturer, are intended 
to automatically record the entry into, and the subsequent usage of, the defined power levels, 
and to enable the pilot to be automatically alerted of the entry into the power levels and the 
corresponding impending time expiration and the time expiration point. The automatic 
recording should be compatible with the maintenance instructions prescribed for these ratings. 
In particular, it should record the number of usages and time of each usage or accumulated 
time, including any exceedence of 30-Second OEI and/or 2-Minute OEI operating limitations or 
relevant time limitations. It should also provide a means to alert the maintenance personnel 
that usage and/or exceedence of 30-Second and/or 2-Minute OEI power have taken place. See 
also paragraph (5) of AMC E 40(b) regarding exceedence of the 2 minute time limitation at 2-
Minute OEI power.  
(3) 
The objective is to ensure that the information needed for the mandatory maintenance actions 
is available after the use of 30-Second and/or 2-Minute OEI power, thus avoiding continued 
operation of the Engine in a potentially unsafe condition. The overall development assurance 
level of the recording and retrieval system should be consistent with this objective. The 
development assurance level(s) of the components of the systems used to record usage and to 
retrieve the record of the 2-Minute and 30-Second OEI powers should be based on the criticality 
of the function(s) performed within the recording and retrieval system as determined through 
the system safety analysis required under CS-E 50(d). The overall system assurance level can be 
achieved based on an appropriate combination of system architecture and component 
assurance levels. 
If the recording and/or retrieval system is not part of the Engine, the aircraft should still comply 
with CS-27/29.1305 specifications. The applicant should specify in the instructions for 
installation that the objective of this recording/retrieval system is to ensure that the 
information needed for the mandatory maintenance actions is available after the use of 30-
Second and/or 2-Minute OEI power, thus avoiding continued operation of the Engine in a 
potentially unsafe condition and that the overall development assurance level of the recording 
and retrieval system should be consistent with this objective.  
(4) 
The recording systems should only be able to be reset by the maintenance personnel and not 
by the flight crew in order to prevent further Engine operation without having taken the 
prescribed mandatory post-flight inspection and maintenance actions. 
(5) 
An Engine can be approved with 30-Second/2-Minute OEI Power Ratings and any combination 
of Maximum Engine Over-torque, Maximum Engine Over-speed and Maximum Exhaust Gas 
Over-Temperature in compliance with CS-E 820, 830, and 870. In such a case, Engine operation 
