 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 239 of 262 
 
(v) 
The effect on the shaft of any likely Engine fire and the necessity for provision of 
an early warning of any internal fires that may occur; 
(vi) 
The effect on the shaft of loads which could be transmitted by shock loading 
resulting from bird strikes, blade Failures, etc.; 
(vii) 
The effect on the shaft of oscillatory loading, for example, resulting from fuel 
system oscillations. 
(b) 
The shaft system should be subjected to the following investigations and/or testing to 
support the design assessment and the compliance with the objectives of CS-E 850(a). 
(i) 
Strain gauge or other suitable means of investigation in order to satisfy the 
vibration survey specifications of CS-E 650 and to ensure that shaft whirling is not 
present to any significant degree at any likely Engine operating condition.  
(ii) 
Fatigue evaluation of each shaft in torsional modes, in order to confirm its 
predicted safe life. An oscillatory torque of a magnitude equal to the maximum 
envisaged in a representative installation, but not less than ±5% of the normal 
maximum steady-state torque, should be superimposed on that steady-state 
torque. In addition, consideration should also be given to any high-frequency 
vibrations determined from paragraph (4)(b)(i) above and any possible shaft 
bending. 
(iii) 
Where necessary, confirmation of stress assumptions by static strength tests. 
(iv) 
Where necessary, substantiation by test of the design considerations detailed in 
paragraph (4)(a) above such as to demonstrate that shaft Failure is acceptably 
remote. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
CS-E 860 Turbine Rotor Over-temperature 
(a) 
The most critical temperature conditions which the turbine rotor(s) can attain in the event of 
Failures of the cooling air supply must be established by analysis and tests, as appropriate. 
Failure of individual components of the Engine that can be classified as Extremely Remote need 
not be included in the analysis or tests. 
(b) 
Evidence to demonstrate that instrumentation is not required under CS-E 60(e) may be 
obtained from endurance running in an Engine or on rigs, or, where adequate margins can be 
demonstrated, by calculation. Where practicable, the duration of endurance running may be 
reduced by compensating increases in the test temperature. 
CS-E 870 Exhaust Gas Over-temperature Test 
(a) 
General 
(1) 
Where the Applicant wishes to establish a Maximum Exhaust Gas Over-temperature limit 
compliance must be shown with this paragraph CS-E 870. 
(2) 
The test may be run, if desired, as part of the endurance test of CS-E 740. Alternatively, 
test evidence may be provided from an Engine of the same type. 
