 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 16 of 262 
 
of the intended installation, or this may be limited to defining the key design characteristics that 
must be respected, including, but not limited to, mass, centre of gravity, aerodynamic flow lines 
and nozzle areas. In this case, the Engine data sheet would contain a note to the effect that the 
Engine may be used with the specified thrust reverser. 
(c)  
If the engine is not intended to be used with a thrust reverser, then the Engine data sheet 
indicates that the use of a thrust reverser is prohibited. 
(d)  
Whilst compliance with CS-E may rely solely on testing using a duct equivalent to a production 
thrust reverser, the compliance with applicable aircraft certification specifications (e.g. 
CS 25.934) typically requires testing of the actual Engine / thrust reverser combination. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No.: E/7] 
CS-E 15  Terminology 
(a) 
The terminology of this CS-E 15 must be used in conjunction with the issue of CS-Definitions 
current at the date of issue of this CS-E. Where used in CS-E, the terms defined in this paragraph 
and in CS-Definitions are identified by initial capital letters.  
(b) 
All Engines 
Extremely Remote  
means unlikely to occur when considering the total operational life of 
a number of aircraft of the type in which the Engine is installed, but 
nevertheless, has to be regarded as being possible. Where numerical 
values are used this may normally be interpreted as a probability in 
the range 10-7 to 10-9 per Engine flight hour.  
Reasonably Probable  
means unlikely to occur often during the operation of each aircraft of 
the type but which may occur several times during the total 
operational life of each aircraft of the types in which the Engine may 
be installed. Where numerical values are used this may normally be 
interpreted as a probability in the range 10-3 to 10-5 per Engine flight 
hour.  
Remote  
means unlikely to occur to each aircraft during its total operational life 
but may occur several times when considering the total operational 
life of a number of aircraft of the type in which the Engine may be 
installed. When numerical values are used, this may normally be 
interpreted as a probability in the range 10-5 to 10-7 per Engine flight 
hour.  
(c) 
Turbine Engines 
Hazardous Engine Effect means an effect identified as such under CS-E 510.  
Major Engine Effect  
means an effect identified as such under CS-E 510.  
Minor Engine Effect  
means an effect identified as such under CS-E 510.  
(d) 
For piston Engines 
Boost Pressure  
means the power setting measured relative to standard sea-level 
atmospheric pressure.  
Charge Cooling  
means the percentage degree of charge cooling, quantitatively 
expressed as: 
