 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 112 of 262 
 
demonstrated. The limitations on the demonstrated capability, any related assumptions, and 
potential effects on operability should be documented in the Engine installation manual, as 
required under CS-E 30(a) and CS-E 20(d). This should include but should not be limited to the 
quantity of ice, and the fuel temperature at the critical conditions for transient fuel icing. The 
compliance evidence should address the possibility of a blockage of Engine fuel system 
components, and the consequences of the resultant activation of any bypass features, under 
the minimum fuel heating conditions and with the worst-case Engine-to-Engine variability.  
Note: A transient fuel icing condition is considered to be a short-duration exposure to high 
concentrations of (water) ice in the fuel delivered to the Engine that is caused by the 
accumulation and subsequent shedding of ice within the aircraft fuel system. 
(5) 
In complying with CS-E 110(d), because a fuel leakage is considered as a potential fire hazard, 
design precautions should be taken to minimise the possibilities of incorrect assembly of fuel 
system components, including pipes and fittings, especially if parts of the system have to be 
removed during the routine maintenance procedures. 
(6) 
For compliance with CS-E 130(a), in order to minimise the possibility of occurrence and spread 
of fire, each filter or strainer should be mounted so that its weight is not supported by the 
connecting lines or by the inlet or outlet connections of the filter or strainer, unless adequate 
strength margins under all loading conditions are provided in the lines and connections.  
(7) 
Each filter or strainer requiring regular servicing should - 
— be accessible for draining and cleaning or replacement; 
— incorporate a screen or element that is easily removable; and  
— have a sediment trap and drain except if the filter or strainer is easily removable for 
drain purposes. 
(8) 
Any restriction in bypass operation condition should be specified in the appropriate manuals. 
(9) 
CS-E 560(g) is intended to cover any likely changes in settings caused by vibrations, incorrect 
maintenance, mechanical interference when installed or during handling, etc. Examples of 
design precautions are: locking devices, sealing, inaccessible installation. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
CS-E 570 Oil System 
(See AMC E 570) 
(a) 
(1) 
The design of the oil system must be such as to ensure its proper functioning under all 
intended flight attitudes, installation, atmospheric and operating conditions, including oil 
temperature and expansion factors. 
(2) 
There must be design precautions - 
(i) 
To minimise the possibility of incorrect fitment of the closing device of the oil filling 
point or any other access point, or to preclude fluid loss in the event of incorrect 
fitment, and 
(ii) 
To prevent entrance into the oil tank or into any oil tank outlet of any object that 
might obstruct the flow of oil through the system, 
