 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 245 of 262 
 
AMC E 920 Over-temperature test 
(1) To establish a datum turbine entry gas temperature, when this may vary at a fixed gas temperature 
operating limit dependent upon the deterioration condition of the engine, it is considered reasonable 
to assume an Engine condition in which the gas temperature operating limit is likely to be achieved 
when at the maximum power setting. This would normally suggest that a deteriorated engine 
condition may be assumed. 
(2) For the purpose of the test of CS-E 920(b), "Maximum power-on rotor speed" is normally the steady 
state rotor speed associated with the 30-Second OEI Power rating. However, this speed should be 
substituted by the transient rotor speed if the Engine characteristic transient speed stabilisation 
exceeds 3 seconds during the transition to the 30-Second OEI power. 
In order to demonstrate that the Engine maintains the integrity of the turbine assembly after the over-
temperature test, the applicant should show that no burst, no blade Failure or no other significant 
Failure of any Engine component would occur or become evident during the test, during shutdown or 
during the subsequent strip examination. 
In the event that any Failure becomes evident, this should be analysed and it should be established by 
analysis or test that the cause is not such that in service the OEI rating structure would not be 
satisfactorily achieved. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
 
CS-E 930 Initial Maintenance Programme Test 
(See AMC E 930) 
A test must be performed with an Engine that adequately conforms to the type design to substantiate 
the initial maintenance programme (IMP) that will be included in the instructions for continued 
airworthiness (ICA) in order to ensure sufficient Engine reliability under in-service conditions. The test 
must simulate the conditions in which the Engine is expected to operate in service, including typical 
start–stop cycles. 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
 
AMC E 930 Initial Maintenance Programme Test 
(a) 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this AMC, the following definitions apply. 
(1) 
‘Engine flight cycle’. Predicted average flight profile of the Engine parameters and 
conditions representative of the way the Engine is expected to operate in service. 
(2) 
‘Initial maintenance programme (IMP)’. Instructions for continued airworthiness (ICA) 
submitted under CS-E 25 that are considered necessary to ensure sufficient Engine 
reliability. The ICA may be required by the type certificate holder in the ‘Airworthiness 
Limitations’ section of the ICA or may be recommended at certain intervals. The IMP may 
use hard time-based maintenance programming or on-condition-based maintenance 
programming, or a combination of both. 
