 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 173 of 262 
 
(2) 
Where increased rotational speed limitations are desired in respect of both Take-off and 
Maximum Continuous Power/Thrust conditions, the supplementary testing should provide for 
running at the increased rotational speed of equal duration to, and in all other relevant respects 
as severe as, the conditions prescribed in the type endurance test schedule for running at Take-
off and Maximum Continuous Power/Thrust conditions. 
(3) 
Where increased rotational speed limitations are desired in respect of either Take-off or 
Maximum Continuous Power/Thrust conditions only, the supplementary testing should provide 
for –  
(a) 
Where the test is conducted on parts which have already completed the Endurance Test 
(or its equivalent). Running at the increased rotational speed of equal duration to, and in 
all other relevant respects as severe as, the conditions of the Endurance Test schedule 
for running at the Take-off or Maximum Continuous Power/Thrust conditions as 
appropriate. 
(b) 
Where the test is conducted on parts which have not completed an Endurance Test (or its 
equivalent). Running of equal duration to, and in all other relevant respects as severe as, 
the conditions of the Endurance Test schedule for running at the Take-off and Maximum 
Continuous Power/Thrust conditions, but with only that period of running for which 
higher limitations are desired, conducted at the increased rotational speed. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 740(g)(1) Endurance Tests - Incremental Periods 
As an alternative to revising the incremental running as indicated in CS-E 740(g)(1), separate Engine 
running of appropriate severity may be completed (see also AMC E 650 paragraph 10). 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/4] 
AMC E 740(i)(2) Endurance tests - Inspection checks 
(1) 
If relevant, the level of Engine disassembly, component cleaning and replacement prior to 
rebuild for the additional endurance test sequence should be agreed with the Agency (See CS-
E 150(b)). It should be shown that any cleaning or replacement of consumable parts during the 
strip examination or replacement of consumable parts will not enhance the Engine's ability to 
meet the specifications of the additional endurance test of CS-E 740(c)(3)(iii). 
(2) 
For complying with the structural integrity specification of CS-E 740(i)(2)(iii), the applicant 
should show that no Failure of any significant Engine component occurs during test or during 
shutdown, or becomes evident during the subsequent strip examination. In the event that any 
Failure becomes evident, this should be analysed and corrective actions taken, or certain 
limitations imposed on the Engine as appropriate. For the purpose of this specification, the 
Engine parts deemed significant are those that can affect the structural integrity, including but 
not limited to mountings, casings, bearing supports, shafts and rotors. 
(3) 
The Engine condition exhibited after the additional endurance test required by CS-E 
740(c)(3)(iii) may be used to validate the mandatory maintenance actions after use of 30-
Second and 2-Minute OEI ratings as required by CS-E 25(b)(2) and described in the associated 
AMC material. 
