 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 100 of 262 
 
The overall objective of service damage monitoring is to review data obtained from 
field operation of the Engine type design to determine whether there are 
anomalous conditions which require corrective action(s). Appropriate action(s) 
may include the assessment of the impact of damage observed on one 
part/location on other parts/locations. 
Applicants should determine whether the damage that has been detected is 
consistent with the serviceable and repairable limits and determine whether 
additional actions are required to prevent Failure and rectify any potential unsafe 
condition which may be identified.  
The establishment of a service damage monitoring process consists of the 
following: 
a. 
Determine the serviceable and repairable damage limits using a process 
approved by the Agency and summarised within the service management plan. 
Damage size limits should be a function of part, part location, and damage type. 
Damage should include but may not be limited to nicks, dents, scratches and 
cracks. The serviceable and repairable limits must be published in the Instructions 
for Continued Airworthiness. 
b. 
Establish a monitoring process to record damage that meets all of the 
following criteria: 
— 
is inconsistent with or exceeds the repairable limits, 
— 
is made available to the type certificate holder (TCH) or supplemental type 
certificate holder (STCH) through an appropriate reporting system. 
The applicant should, as appropriate, consider the effectiveness of existing 
reporting systems as new product types/operations are introduced. 
Document the monitoring process in the service management plan. This activity 
should record at a minimum the damage size, type and location observed during 
service inspections for each Critical Part. 
c. 
Assess damage meeting the criteria defined in b. above. This assessment 
should consider: 
— 
the impact of the observed damage on the life of the damaged part, 
— 
the likelihood for recurrence of similar damage, 
— 
whether the damage has been determined as having flown, 
— 
whether the damage is likely to be undetected before the part is released to 
service, 
— 
recommended corrective actions to identify/prevent/eliminate the source 
of the damage. 
During the service life of the part, a summary of the damage information obtained 
by the service damage monitoring process, as well as the corrective actions 
implemented, should be made available to the Agency. 
(e) 
Establishment of the Approved Life — Static, pressure loaded parts 
(i) 
General Principles  
