 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART C — PISTON ENGINES, TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 70 of 262 
 
AMC E 300(f)  Conditions Applicable to all Tests - Torque 
Measurement 
In establishing an acceptable method for determination of the Engine torque, consideration should be 
given to the following: 
(1) 
Where a method of direct Engine torque measurement is to be used, the overall accuracy of 
the torque measurement system should be determined. 
(2) 
Where no direct means for measuring Engine torque is available, an appropriate method for 
establishing the torque will be needed. 
(a) 
Normally this requires the use of suitable Engine parameters (e.g. power setting, and 
Engine speed) to correlate the Engine torque measured on a dynamometer with the 
Engine torque achieved in the test configuration. 
(b) 
The correlation should take into account any effect due to environmental changes (e.g. 
temperature, humidity, ambient pressure) and of test bench configuration changes (e.g. 
air inlet, exhaustand engine cooling system differences between the dynamometer 
installation and the test configuration). 
(c) 
The overall accuracy of the method used for determining Engine torque should be 
determined. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 320  Performance Correction 
(See AMC E 320) 
(a) 
All performance results shall be corrected to the conditions of the Standard Atmosphere, in 
accordance with an internationally recognised method. 
(b) 
Where Engine power is affected by cylinder temperature or coolant temperature the 
performance results shall be corrected to the minimum engine power within the range of 
temperatures to be approved for use. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 320 Performance Correction 
(1) 
An acceptable method for calculating performance corrections is defined in ISO 1585:2020, 
Road vehicles - Engine test code - Net power. 
(2) 
Since the effect of free water on power output is within ±1% over the range of water/air ratios 
normally encountered in operation, and the amount of free water is exceedingly difficult to 
measure, no corrections for free water need to be made. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/8] 
 
