 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 230 of 262 
 
(2) 
A power turbine rotational speed equal to the highest speed at which the Maximum 
Engine Over-torque can occur in service, but not more than the limit speed of Take-off or 
OEI ratings of a duration longer than 2 minutes. 
(3) 
For Engines incorporating a reduction gearbox, a gearbox oil temperature equal to the 
maximum temperature at which the Maximum Engine Over-torque could occur in 
service; for other Engines, an oil temperature within the normal operating range. 
(4) 
A turbine entry gas temperature equal to the maximum steady state temperature to be 
approved for use during periods longer than 20 seconds when operating at conditions 
not associated with 30-Second or 2-Minute OEI Power Ratings, unless it can be shown 
that other testing provides substantiation of the temperature effects when considered in 
combination with the other parameters identified in CS-E 820(b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(3). 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
AMC E 820(a)(2) Over-torque Test 
In order to comply with CS-E 820(a)(2), it should be shown that an over-torque event does not 
compromise the ability of the Engine to reach its Rated 30-Second/2-Minute OEI Power. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
CS-E 830 Maximum Engine Over-speed 
(a) 
If approval of a Maximum Engine Over-speed is sought for a rotating system of the Engine, a 
test must be undertaken on a complete Engine. Alternatively, test evidence from an Engine of 
similar design may be provided. 
(b) 
The test conditions must be as follows: 
(1) 
A total of 15 minutes run at the Maximum Engine Over-speed to be approved. This may 
be done in separate runs, each being of at least 2.5 minutes duration. 
(2) 
A turbine-entry gas temperature equal to the maximum steady state temperature to be 
approved for use during periods longer than 20 seconds and not associated with 30-
Second or 2-Minute OEI Power Ratings. However, for the shaft system to be approved, if 
the maximum over-speed cannot occur at the maximum turbine-entry temperature, the 
highest temperature which could occur at the conditions of Maximum Engine Over-speed 
must be used. 
(3) 
The declared maximum operating oil temperature. 
(c) 
On conclusion of such tests, the stripped condition of the Engine must be satisfactory for 
continued running. (See AMC E 830(c)) 
(d) 
The test may be run, if desired, as part of the endurance test of CS-E 740 provided the conditions 
of CS-E 830(b) are satisfied. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
AMC E 830(c) Maximum Engine Over-speed 
In order to comply with CS-E 830(c), it should be shown that an over-speed event does not 
compromise the ability of the Engine to reach its Rated 30-Second/2-Minute OEI Power. 
