 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART D – TURBINE ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 87 of 262 
 
CS-E 510(g)(2)(ii) concerns generation and delivery of toxic products caused by 
abnormal Engine operation sufficient to incapacitate the crew or passengers during 
the flight. Possible scenarios include:  
Rapid flow of toxic products impossible to stop prior to incapacitation  
No effective means to prevent flow of toxic products to crew or passenger 
compartments.  
Toxic products impossible to detect prior to incapacitation.  
The toxic products could result, for example, from the degradation of abradable 
materials in the compressor when rubbed by rotating blades or the degradation of 
oil leaking into the compressor air flow.  
No assumptions of cabin air dilution or mixing should be made in this Engine-level 
analysis; these can only be properly evaluated during aircraft certification. The 
intent of CS-E 510(g)(2)(ii) is to address the relative concentration of toxic products 
in the Engine bleed air delivery. The Hazardous Engine Effect of toxic products 
relates to significant concentrations of toxic products, with “significant” defined as 
concentrations sufficient to incapacitate persons exposed to those concentrations.  
Since these concentrations are of interest to the installer, information on delivery 
rates and concentrations of toxic products in the Engine bleed air for the cabin 
should be provided to the installer as part of the Engine instructions for installation.  
(v) 
Significant thrust in the opposite direction to that commanded by the pilot, 
Engine Failures resulting in significant thrust in the opposite direction to that 
commanded by the pilot can, depending on the flight phase, result in a hazardous 
condition relating to aircraft controllability. Those Failures, if applicable to CS-E 
certification, that could be classified as hazardous events include:  
— Uncommanded thrust reverser deployment;  
— Unintended movement of the Propeller blades below the established 
minimum in-flight low-pitch position;  
— High forward thrust when reverse thrust is commanded.  
(vi) 
Uncontrolled fire. 
An uncontrolled fire should be interpreted in this context as an extensive or 
persistent nacelle fire which is not effectively confined to a designated fire zone or 
which cannot be extinguished by using the aircraft means identified in the 
assumptions. Provision for flammable fluid drainage, fire containment, fire 
detection, and fire extinguishing may be taken into account when assessing the 
severity of the effects of a fire.  
(vii) 
Complete inability to shut the Engine down. 
Complete inability to shut down the Engine is regarded as a Hazardous Engine 
Effect due the potential circumstances where continued running of the Engine, 
even at low thrust or power, represents a hazard. These circumstances include the 
inhibition of safe evacuation of passengers and crew, directional control problems 
during landing due to the inability to eliminate thrust or power, or the inability to 
ensure safe shut down when required following a Failure.  
