 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 61 of 262 
 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No.: E/2] 
CS-E 150  Tests - General Conduct of Tests 
(a) 
The fuel and oil used for all tests must normally be chosen from those specified by the Applicant, 
but, where it may have relevance to the results of any particular test, the actual fuel and oil to 
be used (including any additives) must be justified. (See AMC E 150(a)) 
(b) 
During all tests, only servicing and minor repairs must be permitted except that major repairs 
or replacement of parts may be resorted to, provided that the parts in question are subjected 
to an agreed level of penalty testing. 
(c) 
Except where declared by the Applicant, no artificial means of increasing the humidity of the 
ambient air must be employed. 
(d) 
For all tests, parameters relevant to the purpose of the test must be agreed and recorded at 
appropriate times during the test. Where possible, Engine conditions must be allowed to 
stabilise before observations are taken. In particular, observations taken less than 3 minutes 
after a change of Engine conditions must not be included in assessment of performance, unless 
the rating cannot be used for more than 3 minutes. 
(e) 
Adjustments made in compliance with CS-E 140(c) must be checked and unintended variations 
from the original settings recorded after each test.  
(f) 
All test bed equipment and all measuring equipment used for tests must be appropriately 
calibrated. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 150(a)  Tests - General conduct of tests 
For piston Engines, where the operating conditions of a test represent Maximum Continuous Power 
at altitude, a higher grade fuel or any other approved anti-detonant may be used if such is required to 
suppress detonation during the test. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
CS-E 160  Tests - History 
(a) 
In order to enable compliance with point 21.A.20(d)2 of Part 21, should a Failure of an Engine 
part occur during the certification tests, its cause must be determined and the effect on the 
airworthiness of the Engine must be assessed. Any necessary corrective actions must be 
determined and substantiated. 
(b) 
The development history of the Engine or component or equipment of the Engine must be 
considered. Any significant event, relevant to airworthiness of the Engine, occurring during 
development and not corrected before certification tests, must also be assessed under CS-E 
160(a).  
[Amdt No: E/7] 
CS-E 170  Engine Systems and Component Verification 
(See AMC E 170) 
