 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 152 of 262 
 
The applicant should assess the Engine operating envelope using thermodynamic models for 
new and fully deteriorated Engines to identify conditions at the most critical point(s), including 
any coincident maxima. These conditions will probably be associated with limit temperature 
cases (for a secondary air system operating at design conditions, it is reasonable to assume that 
the highest exhaust gas temperatures (EGTs) are coincident with the highest metal 
temperatures (Tmetal), even if Tmetal is not directly scalable with the EGT). 
The CPA is expected to provide the following two types of data outputs. 
• 
CPA data for production Engine in-service operating limits (OL) study. Necessary to 
establish conditions for the speed and temperature OL demonstrations (see CS-
E 740(c)(4)(iv)). 
Output data.  
Cumulative exposure time of concurrent rotor speeds OL (individually in the case of 
multiple rotors) and EGT OL.  
Note: A tendency to concurrent OL levels at the end of the service interval would suggest 
that the alternate endurance test is inappropriate for the given eEngine type. 
Cumulative exposure time at, and in close proximity to, rotor speeds OL and associated 
EGTs (EGT below EGT OL).  
Note: To be compared with mandatory demonstration times required by CS-
E 740(c)(4)(iv). 
Cumulative exposure time at, and in close proximity to, EGT OL and associated maximum 
rotor speeds.  
• 
CPA data for severity comparison purposes. Necessary to establish conditions for the test 
severity demonstration (refer to CS-E 740(c)(4)(v)). 
Output data.  
Identification of the critical component(s) and associated damage mechanism(s). 
Maximum damage conditions for the critical components at EGT OL.  
Note: For consideration of metal creep damage, and other temperature-related damage, 
the highest component temperature, Tmetal, should be established, to be used in the 
assessment of reference severity as part of the severity analysis of the classic endurance 
test, and in assessing the required power settings and eventual severity value of the 
physical alternate test. 
(3) 
Severity Equivalence between the Alternate and Classic Endurance Tests  
The key input parameters to characterise the severity of a test are the time on condition, the 
number of cycles run to critical component temperatures and the physical Engine speeds 
reached while operating at rated thrust. 
This classic endurance test provides a number of challenges to the Engine design. The primary 
intent is to perform an accelerated severity test of the creep capability (i.e. the durability at 
sustained high turbine temperature and physical speed) and of the effects of deterioration on 
operability driven by the prescribed operating conditions (not inclusive of all flight environment 
deterioration effects). 
Therefore, the severity equivalence of the alternate endurance test should be assessed on the 
basis of accelerated creep life usage as compared with the intent of the classic endurance test.  
