 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 188 of 262 
 
combination of the 
two. 
Note 1: These conditions are provided as a guide, but they may need to be modified to address the 
requirements applicable to the intended installation. For instance, snow concentrations may need to 
be increased to address blowing snow. When applicable, the applicants should consider the material 
provided in AMC 25.1093(a) 1.6 (Falling and Blowing Snow). 
Note 2: As per CS-E 780, those conditions only need to be considered if applicable to the Engine air 
intake system in the ice protection specifications of the Certification Specifications applicable to the 
aircraft on which the Engine is to be installed. 
(2.4) Test results 
Due to the repetitive nature of icing condition encounters during in-service operation, which may 
extend for longer duration than during the icing test campaign, the applicant should demonstrate that 
no unacceptable mechanical damage will occur as a result of prolonged operation with levels of high 
vibration due to repetitive icing encounters. 
(3) 
Mixed-phase/Ice Crystal Conditions 
This paragraph is provided for certification of turbine Engines to be installed on aircraft which 
have mixed-phase and ice crystal icing conditions included in their Certification Specifications. 
Until validated full-scale ground test facilities for mixed-phase and ice crystal icing conditions 
are available, compliance should be based on flight test and/or analysis (supported by 
Engine/component tests, as necessary). 
(a) 
Design Precautions. The applicant should show that design precautions have been 
taken to minimise the susceptibility of the Engine to mixed-phase/ice crystal 
accretions.  
           The analysis should also identify remaining features or locations in which ice 
accretion could not be excluded. Design features which may increase the 
susceptibility include but are not limited to: 
(i) 
stagnation points which could provide an increased accretion potential, such 
as frame leading edges especially if upstream vanes direct or concentrate 
impingement upon the frame leading edge; 
(ii) 
exposed core entrance (as opposed to hidden core); 
(iii) 
high turning rates in the inlet, booster and core flow path (particularly 
compound turning elements), such as flow path concavity; 
(iv) 
protrusions into the core flow path (for example, bleed door edges and 
measurement probes); 
(v) 
narrow vane-to-vane circumferential stator spacing leading to a small stator 
passage hydraulic diameter; 
(vi) 
variable geometry with stagnation points outside the flow path that could 
lead to accreted ice re-entering the flow path upon geometry movement; 
(vii)  airfoils with low tolerance to soft body damage immediately downstream of 
a potential ice accretion location; 
