 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 182 of 262 
 
(1.7) Compliance of Rotorcraft Engines with Icing Conditions 
Specific provisions for rotorcraft Engines are currently not included in this AMC. Until 
guidance has been established, the necessary compliance method required for rotorcraft 
Engines should be agreed by the Agency. 
(2) 
Supercooled Liquid Water (SLW) Icing Conditions 
(2.1) Critical Points Analysis (CPA) 
(a) 
General Principle  
A Critical Points Analysis (CPA) is one analytical approach to determine suitable 
Engine test conditions in view of showing compliance of the Engine with 
Certification Specifications in Supercooled Liquid Water (SLW) icing conditions 
(including Supercooled Large Drops, if applicable).  
Compliance evidence should include a description of the methodology and tools 
used as part of the CPA. The validation of tools should also be addressed.  
Whilst the CPA is primarily intended to identify whether test points should be 
added to those defined in paragraph (2.2), the principles outlined below may also 
be used for justifying the testing necessary for approval of ground operation in SLW 
icing conditions. 
Where a CPA test point is in a similar condition to a Table 1 test point, the more 
severe of the two should be demonstrated. 
The applicant should consider pertinent service experience as well as the 
anticipated use of the aircraft when selecting critical icing test points.  
Compliance with the requirements of CS-E 780 includes identifying, through 
analysis, the critical operating test points for icing within the declared operating 
envelope of the Engine. The CPA should relate icing conditions to the aircraft speed 
range and Engine powers/thrusts as defined by the applicant. It should also include 
prolonged flight operation in icing conditions (for example, in-flight hold pattern), 
or a repetition of icing encounters. These combined elements within the CPA 
should identify the most critical operational icing conditions: 
(i) 
Applicants should ensure that their analysis is supported by test data. It 
should also include environmental and Engine operational effects on 
accumulation, accretion locations, and the most critical Engine operating 
conditions for ice shed and ingestion. The CPA may also be supplemented 
with development test data (for example wet and dry testing with 
thermocouple components).  
(ii) 
The CPA should include ice accretion calculations that account for freezing 
fraction and aerodynamic effects of the ice as it moves into the air inlet. For 
example, water ingestion into fan module and core inlets, water 
impingement rates for critical surfaces, forward aircraft airspeed effects, 
Engine configuration effects such as inter-compressor bleed, and altitude 
effects such as by-pass ratio effects. The CPA should also include an energy 
balance of critical Engine surfaces (for example, latent heat and heat of 
fusion effects, metal-to-ice heat transfer effects, and ice-insulating effects). 
(iii) 
For anti-iced parts, the CPA should identify a critical test point determined 
from energy balance calculations of required heat loads encompassing the 
