 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 246 of 262 
 
(3) 
‘Initial maintenance inspection (IMI) intervals’. An IMP approach for maintenance tasks 
based on hard time policy (i.e. maximum hours or cycles that an Engine or Engine module 
should be operated before a maintenance task is performed). 
(4) 
‘Engine overhaul’. The process to disassemble, clean, inspect, repair or replace (as 
necessary), reassemble and test for return-to-service approval within the manufacturer’s 
overhaul data specifications. This process relates to the periodic disassembly of the entire 
Engine, or modules when applicable, rather than maintenance of individual parts or 
assemblies. 
(b) 
Purpose of the IMP test 
The primary purpose of the IMP test run is to demonstrate sufficient Engine reliability and 
support the establishment of the entry-into-service (EIS) IMP for that type design. Therefore, 
this AMC provides guidance and acceptable means of compliance on: 
(1) 
test methods and procedures, 
(2) 
test pass/fail criteria, 
(3) 
EIS IMP requirements or recommendations. 
 
(c) 
Applicability to changes to type certificate 
Following the initial demonstration of compliance with CS-E 930, Minor design changes do not 
require a new demonstration of compliance with CS-E 930. 
For Major design changes (following the initial demonstration of compliance with CS-E 930), the 
applicant should assess the impact on the validity of the previously established IMP. The 
applicant should either substantiate the previous IMP or propose means to substantiate a 
change to the IMP. Such means may include analysis, testing or a combination of both. A full 
test to redemonstrate compliance with CS-E 930 may not be required. 
When assessing the IMP’s validity, the applicant should evaluate the impact of the change on 
the Engine design factors and Engine system dynamics. 
Engine design factors include, but are not limited to: mechanical size and stiffness, static 
structure, dynamics of Engine, bearing arrangement, number of structural frames, arrangement 
of mounting to aircraft, number of compression and turbine stages, size and diameter of the 
fan, changes to Engine control system architecture (e.g. supervisory to full authority type, or 
analogue to digital), changes to installation (e.g. service bleed and power extraction) and new 
technology (e.g. design, materials or manufacturing processes), to the extent that these factors 
contribute to the system dynamics of the Engine.  
System dynamics of the Engine are the vibratory response signature (system critical frequencies 
and amplitudes). These can be a function of Engine mass and stiffness, rotor speeds, and Engine 
or aircraft mount and strut mass and stiffness. 
 
(d) 
IMP test 
(1) 
IMP test cycle assessment 
(i) 
General 
The applicant should provide an assessment of expected service operating 
conditions as part of the test plan. In this assessment, the applicant should show 
that the proposed test cycle represents the expected in-service engine flight cycles, 
including: 
— 
established power/thrust ratings, 
