 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 36 of 262 
 
and Instructions for Continued Airworthiness (ICA) available that ensure that the security 
protections of the Engine controls are maintained. 
[Amdt No: E/1] 
[Amdt No: E/5] 
[Amdt No: E/6] 
AMC E 50  Engine Control System 
(1) 
Applicability 
CS-E 50 is applicable to all types of Engine Control Systems. For instance, these systems might 
be hydromechanical or hydromechanical with a limited authority electronic supervisor or single 
channel full authority Engine control with hydromechanical back-up or dual channel full 
authority Electronic Engine Control System with no back-up or any other combination. The 
electronic technology may be analogue or digital.  
The Engine Control System includes any system or device that controls, limits or monitors 
Engine operation and is necessary for continued airworthiness of the Engine. This includes all 
equipment that is necessary for controlling the Engine and ensuring safe operation of the Engine 
within its limits as specified in CS-E 50(a). This implies consideration of all Engine Control System 
components including the electronic control unit(s), fuel metering unit(s), variable-geometry 
actuators, cables, wires, sensors, etc. The main Engine fuel pump is often Engine-mounted and 
physically integrated with the fuel metering unit. However, it is not usually considered part of 
the Engine Control System.  
These specifications cover the main Engine Control System as well as protection systems 
against, for example, over-speed, over-torque or over-temperature.  
When blade shedding or Engine design related means is used for over-speed protection, this 
would not be considered under CS-E 50 as being part of the Engine Control System, as this 
protection is purely mechanical and is designed to work without influence from the Engine 
Control System.  
Engine monitoring systems are covered by this specification when they are physically or 
functionally integrated with the Engine Control System or they perform functions that affect 
Engine safety or are used to effect continued-operation or return-to-service decisions. For 
instance, low cycle fatigue (LCF) cycle-counters for Engine Critical Parts would be included but 
most trend monitors and devices providing information for maintenance would not. Where a 
device is not functionally or physically integrated into the Engine Control System and does not 
perform a function that affects Engine safety, it should still be considered under CS-E 170. 
(2) 
Objective 
The purpose of CS-E 50 is to set objectives for the general design and functioning of the Engine 
Control System and these specifications are not intended to replace or supersede other 
specifications, such as CS-E 560 for the fuel system. Therefore, individual components of the 
Engine Control System, such as alternators, sensors, actuators, should be covered, in addition, 
under other CS-E paragraphs such as CS-E 80 or CS-E 170, as appropriate. 
For EECS, AMC 20-1 and AMC 20-3 provides additional and detailed interpretation of CS-E 50 
with special consideration to interfaces with the aircraft, and the Propeller when applicable.  
(3) 
Rotocraft Engines 
