 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART A – GENERAL 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 39 of 262 
 
(2) 
Have means or provision for means, which cannot be reset in flight, to 
(i) 
Automatically record each usage and duration of power at the 30-Second and 2-
Minute OEI Power levels. 
(ii) 
Alert maintenance personnel in a positive manner, that the Engine has been 
operated at either or both of the 30-Second and 2-Minute OEI Power levels and 
permit retrieval of recorded data; and 
(3) 
Have means, or provision for means, to enable routine verification of the proper 
operation of the above means. 
(e) 
Instrumentation enabling the flight crew to monitor the functioning of the turbine cooling 
system must be provided unless evidence shows that: 
(1) 
Other existing instrumentation provides adequate warning of Failure or impending 
Failure, or  
(2)  
Failure of the cooling system would not lead to Hazardous Engine Effects before 
detection, or 
(3) 
The probability of Failure of the cooling system is Extremely Remote. 
Appropriate inspections must be promulgated in the relevant manuals.  
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
AMC E 60  Provision for instruments 
(1) 
Under the specifications of CS-E 60(a), the Engine manufacturer should define the 
instrumentation which is necessary for Engine operation within its limitations and also make 
provision for installation of this instrumentation. 
In addition to instrumentation which may be required for aircraft certification (for example, 
indication of engine ice protection system activation, rotor system unbalance, and fuel flow), 
the Engine safety analysis might show the need for specific instrumentation providing 
information to the flight crew or maintenance personnel for taking the appropriate actions in 
order to prevent the occurrence of a Failure or to mitigate any associated consequences. 
(2) 
Care should also be exercised in selecting the position on the Engine at which a particular 
parameter, such as oil pressure, is sensed in order to ensure that the indication is appropriate 
for the intended protection of relevant components. For example: 
(a) 
The pick-up point on the Engine for the oil pressure gauge and the low oil pressure 
warning device, where applicable, should be suitably chosen with due regard to all critical 
components to ensure a satisfactory indication of the oil pressure to the main Engine 
bearings. 
(b) 
Unless otherwise agreed, there should be no relief valve or other component liable to 
Failure between the oil pressure gauge and warning device connection and the main 
Engine bearings. Filters necessary to protect oil jets or metering orifices should be 
suitably chosen to reduce the possibility of blockage to a minimum and should be 
accessible for periodic inspection.  
(3) 
In complying with CS-E 60(c), for example, because the inadvertent deployment of a reverser 
in-flight is a Hazardous Engine Effect, the thrust reverser position control and position indicating 
systems should be separate, such that Failures which could affect the thrust reverser position 
would not cause loss of the correct flight deck indication of reverser position.  
