 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 202 of 262 
 
concentration from Appendix A values to 4 percent water droplet flow to airflow, by 
weight, will usually compensate for any flight effects. 
(e) 
Turbine Engine Operability Effects 
As stated previously, rain and hail ingested into a turbine Engine can be at greater than 
ambient concentrations in the Engine at certain combinations of flight speed and Engine 
power/thrust condition. Ingestion of rain or hail through the Engine core can produce a 
number of Engine operational anomalies including compressor surge, power/thrust loss 
and flameout. These operational anomalies are partly a result of the changes in the 
thermodynamic cycle of the turbine Engine because of the presence of water as a result 
of ingesting rain or hail. 
(i) 
Compressor rematch 
The presence of rain or hail particles or water from melted hail in the gas path 
causes the compressor to assume new operating conditions. The net overall effect 
may result in an increase in compressor operating line, with a corresponding 
decrease in compressor surge and stall margins.  
(ii) 
Engine control response (Refer to Figure 3) 
The fuel control steady state operating line will move upward toward the 
acceleration schedule as the amount of ingested rain or hail increases (see 
Figure 3). A higher operating line means that more fuel is required to sustain 
steady-state operation. When the operating line coincides with the acceleration 
schedule, the fuel control may be unable to deliver additional fuel to accommodate 
the increasing rain or hail ingestion. Under this condition, the Engine may rundown 
and could result in sub-idle Engine operation, a loss of throttle response, or 
flameout.  
(iii)  
Combustor response  
The evaporation, in the combustor, of the liquid water resulting from the ingestion 
of rain or hail will cause a reduction in combustor flame temperature and will 
adversely affect combustor performance. The reduced temperature will result in 
slowing of the chemical reaction rate and inhibit complete combustion. This results 
in reductions in combustor efficiency and stability. Typically, the combustor is most 
susceptible to flameout when it is required to operate at a sub-idle operating 
condition. Therefore, a flameout condition may be preceded by Engine rundown 
as discussed previously in paragraph (2)(e)(ii) of this AMC.  
(f) 
Case Contraction 
As rain or hail is ingested into any turbine Engine, the temperature of the compressor 
case may decrease at a faster rate than the compressor rotor. This would result in a 
reduction in compressor blade tip clearances and may result in blade tip rubs. Turbine 
Engine types, such as turbojets, that have a significant scoop factor effect but lack design 
features to direct rain or hail away from the Engine core (e.g. fan blades, bypass splitter, 
etc.) may be more susceptible to damage resulting from case contraction.  
(3) 
Design Factors 
(a) 
General 
The response of a turbine Engine to a rain or hail encounter depends on a number of 
design and operational factors. The manufacturer can greatly improve the operability of 
