 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 237 of 262 
 
(b) 
Clarification of the terms and probabilities used in CS-E 850 may be found in CS-E 510. 
The possible shedding of blades is also covered in CS-E 810(b). 
(2) 
Non-Hazardous Shaft Failures 
(a) 
Where it is claimed that Hazardous Engine Effects are avoided by ensuring that rotating 
components are retained substantially in their normal plane of rotation and the control 
of overspeed is by means of: 
— disc rubbing;  
— blade interference, spragging or shedding;  
— Engine surge or stall;  
— over-speed protection devices, 
this may be substantiated by either test or validated analysis.  
(b) 
If an applicant elects to demonstrate by test that the consequences of a shaft Failure are 
non-hazardous, then the test should be performed by initiating the shaft Failure under 
the worst-case operating conditions within the flight envelope, in any dispatchable 
configuration, that will maximise the rotor over-speed and the subsequent effects. If it is 
impractical to fully duplicate the worst-case conditions, an applicant may propose a test 
under suitably representative conditions to account for the worst case. Those test 
conditions would need to be submitted to the Agency for acceptance. In addition to the 
initial rotor speed, other aspects should also be taken into consideration, such as the 
shaft torque and the relevant Engine pressures and temperatures. Failures that are 
predicted to occur with a probability of Extremely Remote or less do not need to be taken 
into account if they meet all the requirements of CS-E 850(b)(2). 
 If compliance is not shown by a full Engine test, but instead by a system or component 
rig test(s), it should be shown that the test(s) is (are) sufficiently representative, in terms 
of the key characteristics of the shaft Failure and its consequences on all the relevant 
Engine parts and on the behaviour of subsystems, of the way the Failure would occur on 
a full Engine. 
(c) 
 If an applicant elects to demonstrate by validated analysis that the consequences of a 
shaft Failure are non-hazardous, it should be shown that all the likely Failure modes have 
been identified in the analysis (including the loss of loads caused by a Failure of any 
gearboxes supplied by the aircraft manufacturer). The Failure analysis should take into 
consideration the effect of Failures in terms of contact and the loads on the surrounding 
structure of the Engine and determine whether the affected rotor components are 
retained substantially in their rotational plane. It should also demonstrate that the 
structural components, when the loads resulting from the Failure are applied, do not 
exceed their ultimate stress capability and not to lead to a Hazardous Engine Effect.  
 The analysis should be validated against an actual Engine, system or component rig test(s) 
and/or service events, and it should show a sufficient degree of similarity with the Engine 
model for which compliance is sought. This similarity should encompass all the relevant 
aspects of the Failure mechanism and its consequences, such as but not limited to 
aerodynamics, surge characteristics, engine control logic, rotor speeds and the associated 
acceleration characteristics, relevant rotor and stator design features, materials, 
clearances, etc., and should be submitted to the Agency for acceptance. 
(3) 
Hazardous Shaft Failures 
