 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 183 of 262 
 
range of possible combinations of icing conditions and Engine power/thrust. 
The effects of non-aerodynamic ice formations and their shedding as well as 
runback ice shedding should be assessed.  
(iv) 
As part of the analysis, the CPA should also contain an assessment of the 
assumptions and any limitations of the models used as well as their 
validation. 
(b) 
Elements of the CPA  
The CPA should address, at a minimum, the following icing issues:  
(i) 
Ice Shed Damage.  
Shed ice can cause Engine damage if it impacts an Engine surface with 
sufficient mass and velocity. The following types of damage are common, 
and applicants should include them in their CPA with an assessment of each:  
(A) 
Fan Module  
Various parts of the fan module, both non-rotating and rotating, are 
susceptible to ice shed damage. For example, acoustic panels, fan rub 
strips, and fan blade tips are susceptible to ice shed from air intake 
probe(s), spinner, and fan blade roots.  
In determining the critical conditions for fan module damage, the 
surface temperature, exposure time and rotor speed are important 
considerations as well as the atmospheric icing conditions and scoop 
factor. In particular, extended operation in a holding condition in very 
cold continuous maximum icing conditions will maximise the adhesion 
of ice on rotating fan components. This can result in large ice 
accretions and resulting sheds which can damage the Engine or cause 
power/thrust loss.  
(B) 
Compressor Damage  
When ice formations on static components shed, they often result in 
damage to the next downstream rotor stage. For instance, this type 
of damage has occurred on the first blade set in the high pressure 
compressor (intermediate pressure compressor for three spool 
Engines). Establishing the critical conditions for these ice accretions 
therefore requires careful consideration as the critical condition may 
occur at specific limited conditions of low freezing fractions over a 
range of local Mach numbers and air densities. The critical conditions 
may not occur during any of the power settings discussed in this AMC 
(for example, flight-idle, 50 %, 75 % or 100 % of maximum continuous 
power/thrust), and so the power/thrust setting at the critical 
condition should be evaluated. Applicants should evaluate any Engine 
compressor damage that results from ice testing against the 
possibility of multiple occurrences, since icing is a common 
environmental condition. 
(ii) 
Engine Operability.  
The applicant should consider Engine operability as part of their CPA. Engine 
accelerations and decelerations relative to operability challenges (for 
example, surge and stall) should also be considered. The most adverse 
