 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART E – TURBINE ENGINES: TYPE 
SUBSTANTIATION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 222 of 262 
 
 
The calculation of the core ingestion test Engine rotor speeds associated with the 
climb phase will depend on the aeroplane and the type of flight that is flown. For 
each Engine model and installation (where known), the Engine manufacturer 
should:  
— determine the Engine rotor speeds that provide the thrust that is required, at 
an altitude of 3 000 ft (above ground level) to climb  
— through that altitude, in International Standard Atmosphere (ISA) standard day 
conditions at 250 knots indicated airspeed (IAS);  
— include the rotor speeds that were assumed in the instructions for installation 
as required by CS-E 20(d);  
— establish the associated minimum mechanical fan rotor speed for this 
condition using Engine performance simulations;  
— the fan speed chosen should be associated with the lowest rated thrust Engine 
model offered for that aircraft installation; if multiple climb settings are 
available for an intended aircraft, then the lowest climb setting should be used 
to determine the core ingestion rotor speed targets.  
(ii)  
Climb rotor speed considerations  
There is typically little or no difference between the take-off and climb rotor speeds 
for the smaller turbofan Engines that are installed on business jets. For this reason, 
the climb conditions for the core ingestion demonstration will often be very close 
to the conditions prescribed for the medium flocking bird (MFB) test of CS-E 800(d), 
in which the largest MFB is targeted at the core at the full-rated take-off condition.  
The most significant difference between the MFB test and the core ingestion 
demonstration is expected to be the bird speed determined in CS-E 800(f) versus 
the 250-knot IAS core Engine test bird speed. An applicant who wants to 
demonstrate the recommended 250-knot IAS core bird within the existing MFB 
rated take-off test may do so if the applicant can show an equivalent level of test 
severity. Therefore, it is possible for the MFB core ingestion requirements to be 
satisfied by a single test at the rated Take-off Thrust in which the largest MFB that 
is aimed at the core is fired into the engine at the 250-knot IAS climb airspeed while 
the remaining bird velocities, targeting and run-on would follow the current MFB 
criteria. All the birds in the test would still have to be fired within the 1-second 
requirement of CS-E 800(d)(1)(iii). The objective is to show that the core ingestion 
is as rigorous at the current MFB fan speed condition as it would be at the 
aeroplane recommended climb fan speed condition.  
(iii)  
Target selection and timing  
— The bird should be targeted at the Engine in order to maximise the amount of 
bird material that enters the core for the given test condition. This will ensure 
that the core ingestion test properly challenges the core during an Engine 
demonstration.  
— The optimum target location varies with the Engine design. The span-wise 
location will depend on the geometric features of the front of the Engine.  
— The core bird target location should be determined so that it maximises the 
amount of core ingested bird material for the core ingestion test by:  
