 
CS-E — Amendment 8 
SUBPART B — PISTON ENGINES: DESIGN 
AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
 
Annex to ED Decision 2025/003/R 
Page 65 of 262 
 
SUBPART B — PISTON ENGINES: DESIGN AND 
CONSTRUCTION 
CS-E 210  Failure Analysis 
(See AMC E 210) 
(a) 
A Failure analysis of the Engine, including the control system for a typical installation must be 
made to establish that no single Fault, or double Fault if one of the Faults may be present and 
undetected during pre-flight checks, could lead to unsafe Engine conditions beyond the normal 
control of the flight crew. 
(b) 
In certain cases the Failure analysis will depend on assumed installation conditions. Such 
assumptions must be stated in the analysis. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No.: E/7] 
AMC E 210 Failure Analysis 
(1) 
The Failure analysis would normally include investigation of those Engine components that 
could affect the functioning and integrity of the major rotating assemblies, and for the control 
system, all manual and automatic controls such as refrigerant injection system, Engine and fuel 
system speed governors, Engine over-speed limiters, Propeller control systems, Propeller thrust 
reversal systems, etc., as applicable. 
(2) 
Unless the effects can be shown to be adequately mitigated in the assumed installation, and 
appropriate assumptions are detailed in the Engine instructions for installation (as required 
under CS-E 30), the Failure effects considered to lead to unsafe Engine conditions beyond the 
normal control of the flight crew should include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following 
ones: 
— 
non-containment of high-energy debris, 
— 
uncontrolled fire, 
— 
Failure of the Engine mount system leading to inadvertent Engine separation, 
— 
release of the Propeller by the Engine, 
— 
significant thrust in the opposite direction to that commanded by the pilot (e.g. 
unintended movement of the Propeller blades below the established minimum in-flight 
low-pitch position), 
— 
complete inability to shut the Engine down. 
(3) 
The analysis should take into account the effects of Failures of components that are part of the 
Engine type design on components that are not part of the Engine type design, and vice versa. 
(4) 
The Failure of individual components of the Engine and its installation need not be included in 
the analysis if the Agency accepts that the possibility of such Failure is sufficiently remote. 
[Amdt. No.: E/1] 
[Amdt. No.: E/7] 
